The Reality Gap in
Robotics: Challenges,
Solutions, and Best
Practices
Elie Aljalbout1, Jiaxu Xing1, Angel Romero1,
Iretiayo Akinola2, Caelan Reed Garrett2,
Eric Heiden2, Abhishek Gupta4, Tucker
Hermans2,5, Yashraj Narang2, Dieter Fox4,
Davide Scaramuzza1, Fabio Ramos2,3
1RoboticsandPerceptionGroup,UniversityofZurich,Zurich,Switzerland,8050
2NVIDIA,Seattle,USA,98105
3TheUniversityofSydney,Sydney,Australia,2006
4UniversityofWashington,Seattle,USA,98195
5UniversityofUtah,SaltLakeCity,USA,84112
Preprinttoappearinthe2026Annual Keywords
ReviewofControl,Robotics,and
AutonomousSystems,Vol. 9 simulation, robot learning, sim-to-real transfer, reality gap
Copyright©2026bytheauthor(s).
Allrightsreserved Abstract
Machine learning has facilitated significant advancements across vari-
ous robotics domains, including navigation, locomotion, and manipu-
lation. Manysuchachievementshavebeendrivenbytheextensiveuse
of simulation as a critical tool for training and testing robotic systems
prior to their deployment in real-world environments. However, simu-
lations consist of abstractions and approximations that inevitably in-
troducediscrepanciesbetweensimulatedandrealenvironments,known
astherealitygap. Thesediscrepanciessignificantlyhinderthesuccess-
ful transfer of systems from simulation to the real world. Closing this
gap remains one of the most pressing challenges in robotics. Recent
advances in sim-to-real transfer have demonstrated promising results
acrossvariousplatforms,includinglocomotion,navigation,andmanip-
ulation. By leveraging techniques such as domain randomization, real-
to-simtransfer,stateandactionabstractions,andsim-realco-training,
manyworkshaveovercometherealitygap. However,challengespersist,
and a deeper understanding of the reality gap’s root causes and solu-
tionsisnecessary. Inthissurvey,wepresentacomprehensiveoverview
of the sim-to-real landscape, highlighting the causes, solutions, and
evaluation metrics for the reality gap and sim-to-real transfer.
1
5202
tcO
32
]OR.sc[
1v80802.0152:viXra

--- Page Suivante ---

1.Introduction
Simulation holds great potential for robot learning, benchmarking and large-scale data
collection in robotics due to its scalability, safety, and efficiency. Robots can be safely
trainedinsimulationbeforebeingdeployedtotherealworld. Algorithmscanbecompared
against each other in simulation over multiple simulated scenarios. Through simulation,
massiveamountsofdatacanbecollectedfromrobotsperformingcomplextasksatafraction
of the cost compared to the real world. However, the gap between simulated and real-
world environments often stands in the way of fully leveraging its potential. Bridging
the gap between simulation and the real world has become one of the most critical and
long-standing challenges in robotics. Overcoming this challenge holds the potential to
accelerate progress in robotics similar to what has been achieved in other computational
fields. For example, sustained progress observed in the natural language processing and
computer vision communities would not have been possible without significant effort in
the development of large training and benchmarking datasets (1, 2). In contrast, robotics
still lags behind in these aspects. One reason for this is that static test datasets cannot
reflect the complexity of perceiving and acting in the real world. Instead, most robotics
problems require training and benchmarking in interactive environments. While training
in the real world has the benefit of making sure that systems are trained and tested in
realisticsettings,complexreal-worldtasksaredifficulttoscaleandreplicatewithsufficient
reproducibility. In addition, data collection in the real world is bottlenecked by multiple
factorssuchashardwarecost,humandependence,anddifficultyofautomation. Simulation
offers an affordable alternative for these challenges, making it an invaluable tool for data
collection, benchmarking, and building various components of typical robotic pipelines,
such as perception, planning, learning, and control. Namely, for benchmarking, simulation
ensurestherepeatabilityofexperiments,whichisimpossibleinreal-worldroboticssystems
duetotheirstochasticnature. Fordatageneration,simulationprovidesanefficientapproach
that can leverage multiple robots operating faster than in real-time and in a parallelized
manner.
Simulationattemptstoreplicatephysicalrealitywithmathematicalabstractions,mod-
els, and approximations. This means that there are no perfect simulators, and therefore
there is always a difference from the real world, which we call reality gap. While it is a
common misconception to talk about this gap as a single element, the reality gap consists
of a large number of sub-gaps resulting from the simulation’s failure to replicate various
physicalreal-worldmechanismsandphenomenaaccurately. Asaconsequence,transferring
any sort of behavior observed in simulation to a real-world environment can be extremely
challenging. For instance, transferring control policies designed or learned in simulation is
not trivial (9). Due to the differences between the simulated and the real environments,
policies obtained in simulation could achieve great performance in simulation, simply by
abusing modeling inaccuracies and simulator-specific corner cases. Hence, the successful
transfer of such policies is not guaranteed and can even be dangerous to the robot, its
surroundings, and any human in its proximity.
Despite these challenges, recent progress in robot learning has shown great promise
in sim-to-real transfer, where control policies learned in a simulation are transferred to a
similar real-world environment, and multiple techniques have been proposed to overcome
Website: https://robotics-reality-gap.github.io/
2 Aljalboutetal.

--- Page Suivante ---

Simulation Reality gap Reality
Perception
Dynamics &
Sensing
Actuation
System
&
Design
Control
Sim-to-real transfer
Real-to-sim transfer
Figure1
Therealitygapisthedifferencebetweenasimulatedandrealenvironmentinaspectsrelatedto
dynamics,perception&sensing,actuation&control,andsystemdesign. Bycarefullydesigning
thesemodules,thegapcanbereducedtoareasonablesize. Sim-to-realaswellasreal-to-sim
transferrequiremethodsthatcancarefullyovercometheremainingrealitygap. Figuresare
adaptedfromsuccessfulsim-to-realapplicationsinvariousroboticsdomains(3,4,5,6,7,8).
the reality gap for different robotic platforms (10, 11, 12, 13, 3, 14, 6, 5, 8, 15). Besides
improvements in physics engines and rendering quality, simulation technology progressed
tomeetthedemandsoftherobot-learningcommunitybyfollowingthedeeplearningtrend
of massive parallelization and large-scale data collection. Modern simulators can leverage
GPU parallelization to simulate thousands of robots simultaneously (16, 17, 18, 19). This
abilitytoefficientlyparallelizesimulationshasledtosignificantbreakthroughsinthefield,
particularly in locomotion (6, 20), agile flight (21, 8), and manipulation (3, 14, 22, 23). In
locomotion,highlyparallelizedsimulationenabledlearningveryrobustquadrupedlocomo-
tionacrosschallengingterrains(6)and,morerecentlybipedscontrol(24,7). Furthermore,
sim-to-realtransferhasbeenusedfordexterousmanipulationaswellasothervarioussingle-
arm (25, 5) and dual-arm tasks (26), ranging from simple 3D reaching to more complex
and contact-rich tasks such as table-top rearrangement (25) and assembly (26, 5). Addi-
tionally, sim-to-real transfer played a key role in learning agile quadrotor control policies
that outperformed human champions in drone racing (21, 8).
However,sim-to-realstillfacesmanychallenges,suchasphotorealisticrendering(more
generally,sensormodeling)andsimulationofcomplexdynamicssuchascontacts,deforma-
tions, and material variations. To further progress sim-to-real transfer and understand its
limitations, a common and structured understanding of the problem is necessary. Ideally,
such an understanding should go all the way from the roots of the problem to the existing
and needed solutions to overcome them.
In this survey, we provide a comprehensive overview of the sim-to-real landscape for
robotlearning. Wedissecttheproblemintoatomiccomponents,identifythesourcesofthe
realitygapandthesymptomstheycause,andprovidemetricsandsolutionstounderstand
theseproblemsandalleviatetheminpractice. Ourobjectiveistoboosttheunderstanding
oftheproblembyprovidingaguideforresearchersandpractitioners. Wefirstintroducethe
problem,itsnotationanditstheoryinsection2. Insection3,weidentifyandexhaustively
listthedifferentcausesoftherealitygap. Wethensurveyexistingsolutionsandmetricsfor
www.annualreviews.org • TheRealityGapinRobotics 3

--- Page Suivante ---

sim-to-realtransferinsection4andsection5,respectively. Finally,insection6,wediscuss
open problems and an outlook for future research on this topic.
2.Preliminaries
Inthissection, weformalizetheconceptsanddefinitionsrequiredtounderstandandchar-
acterize the reality gap as well as sim-to-real transfer.
2.1.States, Observations, and Actions
Wefirstintroduceageneralmathematicalmodelforrobotsystemsthatreceiveobservations
of the world using their sensors and make decisions that maximize a particular objective.
We formulate this decision-making problem as a Partially Observable Markov Decision
Process (POMDP) 1. A POMDP is defined as the tuple M=(S,A,T,R,Z,O,γ), where
S ⊆Rn denotesthestatespaceencompassingallfeasibleconfigurationsoftherobotandits
environment. A⊆Rm is the action space comprising all control commands the robot can
execute; T :S×A→S denotes the transition dynamics, describing how the state evolves
given the current state s at time t and a given action a ; R : S ×A → R is the reward
t t
functionencodingthetaskobjective;Z ⊆Rh istheobservationspace,andO:S→Z isthe
sensor(observation)modelthatmapsthelatentstatetoanobservationz ;finally,γ ∈[0,1)
t
is the discount factor, representing the relative importance of future rewards with respect
to immediate rewards. The agent maintains a belief b ∈ B(S), a probability distribution
t
over states, updated from the history of past actions and observations. Its goal is to learn
a policy π:B(S)→A that maximizes the expected discounted return
" #
∞
π∗ =argmax E X γtR (cid:0) s ,π(b )(cid:1) , 1.
t t
π
t=0
whereR(s ,π(b ))istherewardtheagentreceiveswheninbeliefb actingunderthepolicy
t t t
π. In practice, sim-to-real work often represents b by a compact feature vector extracted
t
directly from raw observations such as camera images and proprioceptive signals.
2.2.Simulation
A simulation is a computational approximation of the real world. If we denote the real
worlddynamicsperfectlycapturingthebehavioroftherealworldsystemasT (s |s ,a ),
r t+1 t t
and the real observation model O (z |s ), a simulation approximates the real world dy-
r t t
namics and observation model by employing physical models derived from first principles,
numerical integration, and approximations to reduce complexity and computational cost,
such that T (s |s ,a ) ≈ T (s |s ,a ) and O (z |s ) ≈ O (z |s ), ∀s ∈ S, a ∈ A. A
s t+1 t t r t+1 t t s t t r t t t t
perfect simulator aims to minimize the discrepancy between the simulated and real world
dynamicsaswellasthegeometricstructureandthesimulatedobservations. However,per-
fect fidelity is impractical and computationally infeasible in realistic robotic scenarios due
to the inherent complexity of physical effects (friction, noise, sensor latency, etc).
1Whenthesensorsprovidethefullstatewithoutnoise(e.g. insimulationwithprivilegedinfor-
mation) observations are equivalent to states and the formulation collapses to a Markov Decision
Process(MDP).
4 Aljalboutetal.

--- Page Suivante ---

2.3.Reality Gap
We distinguish between the reality gap characterizing the difference between the simulated
and the real environments, and the performance gap, characterizing the difference in per-
formance in simulation and the real world for a given policy.
Thereality gap isthegapbetweenthesimulatedPOMDPM andtherealoneM . It
s r
is mainly composed of the dynamics and perception gaps,
G (M ,M )=E [D(T (·|s,a)∥T (·|s,a))]
dyn s r (s,a)∼Mr sim real 2.
G (M ,M )=E [D(O (·|s)∥O (·|s))],
perc s r s∼Sr sim real
where D is a measure of divergence or dissimilarity, T , T and O , O refer to
real sim real sim
transition dynamics and observation models with subscripts real and sim indicating the
real and simulated environments.
The performance gap is the difference in performance of a given policy when executed
in simulation versus in the real world. Let π : B(S)→A denote a policy trained in an
environmentM,whereB(S)isthebeliefspace. Startingfromaninitialstates ,theclosed-
0
loop trajectory τ = (s ,z ,a ,s ,z ,a ,...,s ,z ) evolves under transition dynamics T
0 0 0 1 1 1 T T
and observation model O. The expected discounted return of π in environment M is
" #
T
X
J (π)=E γtR(s ,π(b )) . 3.
M τ∼p(τ|π,M) t t
t=0
TheperformancegapG (M ,M ,π)forthepolicyπ isformallydefinedastheabsolute
perf s r
difference between its expected performance in the simulated and real environments:
G (M ,M ,π)=|J (π)−J (π)|. 4.
perf s r Ms Mr
Minimizing G (M ,M ,π) ensures effective transfer and robust performance from sim-
perf s r
ulation to real-world scenarios. It is important to note that exact replication of real-world
dynamics (i.e., elimination of G ) and observation models (i.e., elimination of G ) in
dyn obs
a simulator is not practically achievable nor required to achieve successful sim-to-real gap
minimization. Successful transfer can still occur if the policy is robust against differences
between the environments. Therefore, the objective of sim-to-real transfer is
π∗ =minG (M ,M ,π). 5.
perf s r
π
3.Sources of Reality Gap
In this section we elaborate on the differences in dynamics (Section 3.1), perception (Sec-
tion 3.2), actuation (Section 3.3), and system design (Section 3.4), all contributing to the
sim-to-real gap.
3.1.Dynamics
One of the most important causes of the reality gap is the dynamics of the system. The
dynamicsgapG (M ,M )isdefinedbysim-to-realdiscrepanciesinthetransitionmodel
dyn s r
T in the POMDP formulation. When creating a simulator, many decisions and simplifica-
tions are made about what to model and what to leave out, how to model dynamics, what
www.annualreviews.org • TheRealityGapinRobotics 5

--- Page Suivante ---

System
Perception & Sensing Model Sensor
Communication Design
Sec. 3.2 Repres. Noise
Sec. 3.4
Sensor Safety,
model Mechanism
Env.
POMDP
Repres.
Integrators
Low-level
Control
Chaos
Actuator
Models
Parameterization
Actuation & Control Power Unmodelled Robot Dynamics
Sec. 3.3 Electronics Effects Modeling Sec. 3.1
Figure2
Illustrationofthedifferentsourcesoftherealitygapintherealworld(left)andsimulation(right).
parametersbestapproximatetherealworld,andhowtorepresentcontinuousphenomenain
discretecomputations. Thesedecisionsandassumptionscanleadtoaplethoraofdynamics
gaps. Apolicytrainedinasimulationwithinaccuratedynamicsmaylearntoexploitthese
inaccuracies, leading to a potential performance drop in the real world. In the following,
we list the most important sources.
3.1.1.Modeling. Simulators attempt to replicate real-world dynamics with models. The
modelsrepresentvariousaspectsofphysics,suchasrigid-bodydynamics,batteries,chaotic
Symptom: A
policytrainedwith nature, and stochasticity. Each of these components can contribute to the reality gap.
rigid-body
• Rigidbodydynamics. Mostrobotsimulatorsassumeperfectlyrigidbodiesandjoints,
assumptionsmay
leadtounexpected butobjectscanbedeformable,andrealrobotscanbeflexible,compliantorhaveuneven
behaviorswhen joints. Forexample,realrobotlinksandframescanbendorvibrateunderload,whereas
dealingwithreal, simulatorsusuallytreatthemasrigidbodies. Similarly,simulatedjointsareoftenmod-
deformableobjects.
eled as ideal, but they suffer from damping, internal springs, backlash, etc. This
mismatch is a fundamental source of errors in dynamics modeling.
• Chaotic nature. Some real-world phenomena exhibit chaotic behavior, characterized
byasensitivedependenceoninitialconditions,makingtheminherentlynon-reproducible
even with perfect models. These are fundamentally difficult to capture with a dynamic
6 Aljalboutetal.

--- Page Suivante ---

modelinasimulation. Forexample,atmosphericturbulence,complexflowpatternsand
Symptom: Dueto
pressure waves in fluid dynamics cannot be fully captured by simplified models.
chaoticeffects,an
• Stochasticity. The real world contains numerous sources of stochastic dynamics that overfittedpolicy
arefundamentallydifficultorimpossibletorepresentinsimulation. Forinstance,ground- withslightly
differentinitial
basedrobots(wheeledorlegged)encounterstochasticsurfaceandfrictionvariationsand
conditionsmightfail
debris that create unpredictable disturbances. Simulators typically either ignore these inanunpredictable
effectsentirelyormodelthemassimplifiedGaussiannoise,failingtocapturethecomplex manner.
spatiotemporal correlations and non-linear coupling effects present in reality.
• Battery. This is particularly relevant for mobile robots. Even if the actuator model is Symptom:
Unmodeledbattery
accurate,theenergysourcethatfeedsitcanintroduceinaccuracies. Sincemotortorque
dynamics(e.g.,
scalesdirectlywiththevoltagethatthebatteryprovides,anydropinbatteryvoltageim- voltagedropwith
mediatelyreducesthemaximumjointtorquethehardwarecandeliver. Hence,rapidjoint loadorage)may
accelerationscanexperienceatransienttorquedeficitthatisabsentinsimulation. Bat- causethepolicyto
producetorquesthat
teriesarerarelymodeledbecausetheirbehaviorisverynonlinearandhistory-dependent;
arelessthan
terminalvoltagedropswithinstantaneousloadandvarieswithcelltemperatureandage. requiredtoachieve
Neglecting these effects in simulation leaves controllers unaware of the reduced control thedesired
authoritytheyencounteronrealhardware,especiallywhenoperatingatthelimitofthe real-worldmotion.
robot’s performance.
• Contact Dynamics. A key contributor to the dynamics gap in robotics is the in-
accurate modeling of physical contact. Real-world contact interactions are inherently
complex and nonlinear. Materials deform under pressure, friction varies with relative
Symptom: A
velocity,andcontactstatescanalternatebetweensticking,slipping,andseparation. To
policymayfailto
maintain computational efficiency, simulators typically rely on simplified models such graspobjects
as point contacts, linearized friction cones, or compliant spring-damper systems. While becauseitslearned
theseapproximationsenablefastersimulation,theyoftenfailtocapturecriticalphysical modelisbasedon
simplisticcontact
behaviors. This can result in non-physical artifacts such as spurious internal forces, un-
assumptions,leading
stablegrasps,orunrealisticmotionpatterns. Suchmismatchesareparticularlyproblem- tounexpected
atic in contact-rich tasks like robotic manipulation, where precise interaction modeling slippingor
instability.
is crucial for successful control and planning.
Symptom: A
3.1.2.Parameterization. A fundamental source of the dynamics gap arises from the incor- policymay
rectparameterizationofthephysicalmodel. Whilesimulatorsaccountforvariousphysical overshootor
parameters such as friction, aerodynamics, mass, inertia, etc., assigning accurate values to undershootbecause
these parameters can be challenging. Some physical properties can be difficult to measure itslearneddynamics
arebasedon
precisely and can be subject to changes over time.
incorrect
parameters.
3.1.3.Numerical Integrators. The choice of numerical integration methods for unrolling
differential equations significantly impacts the reality gap. Simulators rely on numerical Symptom:
integration schemes to approximate continuous dynamics. Discretization and the specific Performancemay
degradeoverlong
integration method employed (e.g., Euler, Runge-Kutta, Quadrature, etc) can introduce
tasksassmall
discrepancies between the simulated and the real system. Additionally, there is a trade- integrationerrors
off between fidelity and computation time. Increasing the numerical integrator’s accuracy accumulate.
by using smaller time steps or higher-order methods, generally leads to more accurate
simulations at the cost of increased computational time.
3.1.4.Human-Robot Interaction. Modelinghumanbehaviorinsimulationpresentsunique
challenges that create substantial reality gaps (27). Humans exhibit complex, context-
www.annualreviews.org • TheRealityGapinRobotics 7

--- Page Suivante ---

dependent, and often irrational behaviors that are difficult to capture with computational
Symptom: A
models. Therefore, humans are typically simulated as simplified agents with predefined
policycouldtake
advantageofwrong motion patterns, and basic reactive responses to robot actions.
assumptionsinthe
simulatedhuman
behavior. 3.1.5.UnmodeledEffects. Thereisarangeofphysicalphenomenathatareoftenoverlooked
or simplified in simulation, and that can cause significant sim-to-real differences. These
includewearandtearofrobotcomponents,whichdegradeovertimeduetofriction,material
fatigue,repetitiveusage,etc. Thesedegradationsleadtochangesinmaterialpropertiessuch
Symptom:
asstiffness,backlash,vibrations,ortexture,whicharenottypicallycapturedinsimulators.
Performancemay
Thermal effects can also add to this category, as temperature fluctuations can affect the
driftovertime,or
therobotmay performance of motors, sensors, batteries, and other components, potentially leading to a
exhibitunexpected significant change in their behavior.
vibrationsand
instabilityasits
physicalproperties 3.1.6.Asset Fidelity. Simulations represent the environment using digital assets to encode
change. geometry, including primitive shapes, meshes, and Signed Distance Fields (SDFs) and ma-
terial parameters such as friction coefficients, restitution, density, etc. However, for com-
Symptom: A putational efficiency reasons, these representations are often simplified and approximated,
policytrainedwith
utilizing clean layouts and low-resolution models that lack the complexity and properties
idealizeddigital
of real-world environments, such as irregular terrain and fine-grained intricate structures.
assetsmightacton
inaccurategeometric Similarly,therobot’sowngeometryisoftensimplified,omittingimportantphysicaldetails
assumptions,leading andusingsimplifiedshapesforthesakeofefficiency,whichcanleadtounexpectedbehaviors
tocollisionswith
such as self-collisions or unstable motions in reality.
unmodeledeffects.
3.2.Perception and Sensing
In this section, we discuss the sources of the reality gap originating from perception and
sensing. The perception gap is defined by sim-to-real discrepancies in the observation
model O in the POMDP formulation. State-of-the-art simulators with advanced rendering
pipelines(16,28,29,30,31)havesignificantlyimprovedtherealismofsensoreffects. How-
ever, they still fall short of capturing the full complexity and variability of the real world,
often resulting in discrepancies between simulated and real sensory measurements. Conse-
quently, policies trained in such simplified settings struggle to generalize during real-world
deployment. In the following, we outline the major sources of these mismatches and their
implications for sim-to-real transfer.
3.2.1.Sensor Model. Simulation models are designed to mimic the physical characteris-
tics of real-world sensors, including properties such as field of view, resolution, and noise
patterns. Additionally, they simulate how sensors respond to motion and how they are
mounted on the robot since placement significantly influence the resulting sensor data.
• RGB Cameras. ForRGBcameras,NVIDIAIsaacSim(28)usesraytracingandphys-
icallybasedrenderingtogeneratephotorealisticimages. CARLA(29)andAirSim(30),
both built on Unreal Engine, simulate realistic visuals for navigation. These simulators
are capable of modeling realistic lighting, shadows, and material interactions. Many
platforms optimized for real-time performance, such as Gazebo Classic (32) and early
MuJoCo (19), use simplified OpenGL-based rendering with idealized pinhole camera
models and Z-buffer depth computation (33). This omits real-world effects such as lens
flares,chromaticaberration,flyingpixels,androllingshutterdistortions,causinglearned
8 Aljalboutetal.

--- Page Suivante ---

features to poorly transfer to real-world settings (34).
Symptom:
• Depth Sensors. Many simulators support depth sensor simulation, including stereo Sensor-specific
cameras, structured light (e.g., Kinect v1), and time-of-flight (e.g., Intel RealSense) artifacts(e.g.,lens
systems. PlatformssuchasIsaacSim(28),Habitat-Sim(31)offersyntheticdepthmaps distortion,LiDAR
beampatterns)can
derived from rendered 3D geometry. However, these simulations typically assume ideal
leadtomassive
depth projections and often omit real-world artifacts such as quantization noise, depth sim-to-real
shadows, and ambient light interference (35, 36). discrepanciesinthe
• LiDARSensors. SimulatorssuchasCARLAsimulateLiDARsensorsusingraycasting distributionof
observations.
techniques from the sensor origin to the scene geometry. While CARLA approximates
various real-world effects, many intricate characteristics remain difficult to reproduce
accurately. These include beam divergence patterns, material-dependent reflectivity,
angle-of-incidence effects (37), and sensor-specific interference artifacts observed in real
devices like Velodyne, Ouster, or Livox.
• Other Sensors. Simulators also model sensors including joint encoders, IMUs, GPS,
and tactile sensors. However, they often idealize sensor behavior, neglecting real-world
effectssuchasIMUdrift,GPSmultipath,orlatency. Thesesimplificationscanintroduce
reality gaps, especially in tasks relying on sensor fusion or precise state estimation.
Symptom: Policies
3.2.2.Sensor Noise. Real-world sensor measurements are inherently noisy due to factors trainedonsimple
such as thermal effects (38), quantization errors (39), and environmental interference (40). Gaussiannoisemay
overfitandfailunder
Crucially, sensor noise is often complex, non-Gaussian, state-dependent, temporally corre-
complex,
lated,andinfluencedbymotion,temperature,lighting,andsurfaceproperties. Forexample, state-dependent,and
depth sensors exhibit range-dependent uncertainty, structured missing data at depth dis- temporally
continuities, and surface-dependent noise patterns (35). Despite these complexities, many correlatedreal-world
sensornoise.
simulators use simple Gaussian noise models with fixed variance.
3.2.3.Environment Representation. In Section 3.1, we discussed how asset fidelity affects
the accuracy of dynamics simulation. A similar issue arises in perception and sensing:
using low-resolution assets, overly simplified scene graphs, or generic materials can fail Symptom: The
to capture fine-grained perceptual cues such as surface textures, reflectance, and subtle robotmayfailto
recognizeobjectsor
geometry. Additionally, the lack of High Dynamic Range Image (HDRI) backgrounds may
getlostinareal
resultinunrealisticlighting,whilenotdifferentiatingbetweenstaticanddynamicbodiescan roomthatlooks
obscurecriticalmotionandocclusionrelationships. Theselimitationssignificantlydegrade differentfromthe
perceptual realism, which becomes particularly problematic in tasks requiring fine-grained visuallysimplistic
simulation.
object recognition or precise physical interaction.
3.2.4.Robot Model. Simulatedrobotsaretypicallydefinedbytheirgeometry,kinematics,
anddynamics. ThesemodelsareoftenbasedonCADfilesandURDForUSDdescriptions.
Whileaccurateinstructure,theyusuallysimplifyoromitimportantphysicaldetails. Real-
worldfactorssuchasmanufacturingtolerances,materialwear,andmechanicalbacklashare
rarelymodeled. Thesediscrepanciescanintroducerealitygaps. Itcancauseself-collisions,
unstable motions, or failed task execution (41, 42).
3.2.5.Collision Sensing. Simulators rely on efficient collision detection algorithms to de-
termine contact events between the robot and its environment, or within the robot itself.
To achieve real-time performance, they typically use simplified geometric approximations,
such as bounding volumes, convex decompositions, or sphere decompositions—instead of
www.annualreviews.org • TheRealityGapinRobotics 9

--- Page Suivante ---

high-resolution visual meshes (43, 19). These proxy shapes are evaluated at discrete time
Symptom: When
steps, which further limits the accuracy of contact modeling, especially in tasks involving
attempting
dexterous fine-grained manipulation or dense contact.
manipulation,the
robotmayapply
incorrectforcesor 3.3.Actuation and Control
failtograspan
Actuators, together with the low-level control loops around them, are the last interface of
object,asit’s
trainedon the robot’s actions and the real world. They turn the actions from the policy into real-
inaccuratecollision worldmotionandinteraction. Evenwhenperceptionanddynamicmodelsareperfect,any
models.
mismatchorgapbetweenwhatthepolicypredictswilloccur,andwhatactuallyhappensat
this interface can dominate the overall behavior of the robot and can lead to performance
degradation. Feasible commands in simulation can become delayed or unstable once they
are filtered through real actuators. These discrepancies constitute the actuation gap.
3.3.1.Actuator Models. Most simulators treat motors as first-order systems that are able
toperfectlyproducetorqueresponsesinstantaneouslyandlinearlytothecommandsignal.
Symptom: The However, real actuators (e.g., motors) behave as higher-order systems whose electrical and
robot’smovements
mechanical time constants introduce a non-negligible phase lag. In addition, actuators are
maybejerky,
delayed,orunstable, non-linear due to dead-zones, backlash, slew rate constraints, time constants, hysteresis,
especiallyduring etc. If we take into account physical mechanisms attached to the motor, such as gears,
high-speed these problems only get worse, leading to added delays and increased steady state error.
maneuvers.
Symptom: A 3.3.2.Low-level Control. Control policies typically do not produce raw torque/force com-
policy’scommands mandsdirectly,andrealrobotsrarelyacceptthosecommandsdirectly. Instead,thereexist
maynotproducethe one or several low-level control layers that drive the actuator low-level control signal (e.g.,
expectedmotion,or
PWM),andtakeasinputahigher-levelsignalsetpoint(e.g,positionorvelocity). Thiscon-
mayevenleadto
instability,asthey version is generally done through dedicated hardware and firmware, for which most of the
aremodifiedby timeaccessisrestrictedbythevendor. Additionally,thereareoftenhiddenfiltersforanti-
hiddenfiltersonthe aliasing and resonance suppression, saturation, anti-windup logic, or protective non-linear
realhardware.
effects like rate limiting. General robotics simulators do not simulate the lowest-level
controllers, since they strongly depend on the manufacturer of the actuator itself.
3.3.3.Power Electronics. Between the low-level controller commands and the input signal
to the motors, there is an additional layer: the power electronics. Motor drivers, inverters,
Symptom:
andElectronicSpeedControllersclosetheirinnerloops,introducingalatencyofhundreds
Fine-grained
motionsmayfail, ofmicroseconds. Additionally,finitePWMresolutionquantizesthecommandsproducedby
withjitterordead theactuator,reducingaccuracyandintroducingadditionaldeadzonesnearzerocrossings.
zonesnearzero Finally, most drivers come with protection logic, which enforces hard current and voltage
velocity.
caps. These effects are absent in simulations and can largely widen the actuation gap.
3.4.System Design
In addition to the gaps induced by the different modules of the robotics stack, the system
design and the choices it entails can influence the reality gap.
3.4.1.Communication. Although communication in simulation is nearly perfect, commu-
nication in real-world robotic systems can face multiple challenges, including delays and
10 Aljalboutetal.

--- Page Suivante ---

Sim-to-Real Perception Gap
Actuation Gap
Transfer
Dynamics Gap
System Gap
Reducing the Gap Overcoming the Gap
Improving the Simulation Domain Generalization
Fidelity & Adaptation
- System identification - Domain randomization
- Residual learning - Meta learning
- Real-to-sim - Domain adaptation
- Adversarial methods
Modalities & Design Choices Data & Exploration Policy Architecture &
Representations Regularization
- Low-level controller - Incorporating - Modularity
- Choice of sensors improvements real-world data - Privileged Information
modalities - Software alignment - Sim-to-real-driven - Representation learning
- State representation - Hardware design exploration - Policy regularization
- Action representation - System constraints
Figure3
Ataxonomyofsim-to-realtransfermethods,distinguishingclearlybetweenapproachesand
techniquesthataredesignedtoreducetherealitygapandthosedesignedtoovercomeit. The
coloredsquaresindicatewhichrealitygapeachmethodaddresses.
packet loss. In the real world, several mechanisms can be implemented to address these
Symptom:
challenges. Forinstance,itiscommontointroducesomekindofcontrolattenuationmech-
Communication
anismtograduallybringtherobottoasafestopincaseofprolongedcommunicationpacket delaysmaycause
loss. Such mechanisms and behaviors are almost never modeled in simulation. freezing,slowdown,
orjerkyfallback
motionsoutsidethe
trainedpolicy.
3.4.2.SafetyMechanisms. Real-worldroboticexperimentspresentseveralsafetychallenges
that are not of concern in simulation. It is very common to implement safety mechanisms
such as virtual walls in the real world but not in simulation. Such mechanisms change the Symptom: A
behavior of the robot and can further widen the reality gap. policymayfailto
reacttosafety
mechanismsunseen
duringtrainingin
3.4.3.POMDPFormulation. SimulatedPOMDPsoftenfeatureunrealisticinformationand simulation.
behaviors. Forexample,rewardsandterminationcriteriamayrelyonprivilegeddata,such
asexactcollisions,notaccessibleintherealworld,leadingtodifferentrewardsinsimulation
andreality. Thismismatchisparticularlyproblematicformodel-basedcontrolmethodsthat Symptom:
Real-world
dependonrewardsignalsatinferencetime. Similarly,environmentresetsmayuseinfeasible
evaluationsmight
behaviors,suchasplacingobjectsatprecisepositionswithpresetvelocities,creatingstate-
stronglydifferfrom
action distributions unlike those in real deployment, where such resets are impossible. theonesin
simulationdueto
differencesinthe
state-action
3.4.4.Implementation Details. Many implementation details often differ between real-
distributionandthe
world and simulated environments. Simulation commonly involves the discretization of reward.
naturally continuous processes such as image formation and system dynamics. The gran-
ularity of these discretizations can significantly impact the reality gap. Low-level control
implementationcanalsoinvolvecomputationalintegrationanddifferentiationsteps,which Symptom: A
policymaybecome
can also end up running at different frequencies in simulation and the real world.
unstabledueto
mismatchedcontrol
www.annualreviews.org • TheRealityGapinRobotics 1fr1equenciesor
numericalmethods.

--- Page Suivante ---

4.Existing Solutions
Successful sim-to-real transfer requires careful consideration of the reality gap. Methods
addressing this challenge typically target one or more of the previously introduced sources
of the reality gap (Section 3). We mainly distinguish between approaches that attempt to
reduce the gap by improving different aspects of the simulation (i.e., eliminating sources of
the reality gap) and approaches that attempt to overcome the gap by making the system
agnostic, adaptive, and/or passive to certain simulation aspects that cannot be accurately
modeled. Figure 3 summarizes the different methods that can be used for reducing and
overcoming the different reality gaps. A general recipe for successful sim-to-real transfer
includes the following steps.
Sim-to-Real Recipe
1. Design a simulation that represents all variables relevant for the target appli-
cation.
2. Attempt to reduce the different components of the reality gap as much as
possible.
3. Design training methods that can help overcome the remaining gap.
4. Train policies in simulation (ideally under massive parallelization).
5. Evaluate policies in the target real-world environment.
6. Adjust simulation parameters based on real performance and retrain.
4.1.Reducing the Gap
Toreducethegap,weneedtomakesystemmodificationsthateitheri)improvethesimula-
tion’sfidelity(seesection4.1.1),ii)selectinputandoutputmodalitiesandrepresentations
that have a smaller reality gap (see section 4.1.2), or iii) design systems with components
and constraints that induce a smaller gap (see section 4.1.3).
4.1.1.Improving Simulation. It is possible to improve different aspects of the simulated
environment, such as its physical fidelity, sensor models, and many other components that
influence the gaps introduced in section 3.
• SystemIdentification. hasbeenrepeatedlyshowntobeacrucialaspectforsuccessful
Sys-IDhelpsreduce
sim-to-real transfer in multiple domains such as navigation (8), locomotion (4, 44), and
thedynamics gap.
manipulation (45, 46). One recent trend is to do online and iterative system identifica-
tion with data collected at different iterations of real-world evaluations (47, 48, 49, 50).
In addition to physical parameters, it is common to identify and match system-level
parameters representing different aspects of a physical environment, such as its latency,
control frequency, and actuation delay (4, 44, 6, 21).
Learned residual • Learned Residual Models. When discrepancies between the simulated parametric
modelscanreduce modelandthereal-worldarelarge,forexamplewhenthesimulatedphysicsmodelmakes
severalsourcesof
fundamentally-inaccurateassumptions(e.g.,rigid-bodydynamicsformodelingcompliant
reality gap.
bodies),systemidentificationmaybeineffective. Residualsimulation,ontheotherhand,
proposesacompellingsolution: learnamodelthatmodifiesanimperfectsimulator,such
that the composite dynamics model more accurately reflects the real world. Residual
simulation approaches often use learning to modify the outputs of a simulator, namely
12 Aljalboutetal.

--- Page Suivante ---

the predicted states, in order to better reflect real-world observations. Golemo et al.
(51) first trained an Long-Short Term Memory neural network on differences between
simulated trajectories and real-world trajectories to improve policy transfer. Ajay et al.
(52)trainedastochasticRecurrentNeuralNetworktoaugmentadeterministicsimulator
tocaptureuncertaintyincontactdynamics. Gruensteinetal.(53)trainedanetworkto
augmentananalyticalmodeltocaptureunmodeledcomplianceandfriction. Bauersfeld
etal.(54)trainedaneuralnetworktoaugmentablade-element-momentumaerodynamic
model, capturing residual forces and torques for high-speed quadrotor flight. Gao et al.
(55)extendedresidualsimulationtosoftrobotics,traininganetworktoapplycorrective
forces to a finite-element model of a pneumatic arm. Other residual simulation efforts
have proposed a learning technique to modify the inputs of a simulator, namely the
applied actions, so that the resulting states more closely reflect the real world. For
instance, Christiano et al. (56) trained policies for a manipulator in simulation, and
afterwardslearnedaninversedynamicsmodelthatmapsasimulatedactiontoacorrected
real-world action that produces the state transition intended by the simulator. Hanna
et al. (57) took a similar approach, but also augmented the simulator with the action
transformation model before training the policy.
• Real-to-Sim First. A variety of techniques have aimed to use real-world data to con-
struct visually and dynamically accurate simulation environments on the fly at test
time (58, 59, 60, 61, 62, 46, 63, 64, 65, 66, 67, 68). Real-to-sim environment cre- Real-to-simcan
reducevariouskinds
ation involves creating environments in simulation from data collected in the real world
ofreality gap.
D ={(z,a,z′) }N . This “inverse” problem has multiple facets – constructing accu-
real i i=1
rate geometry of the environment, constructing accurate kinematics and dynamics, and
lastly constructing accurate visuals and rendering.
For geometry identification, techniques for real-to-sim often build on 3D reconstruc-
tion (69, 70) and novel-view synthesis methods for reconstructing geometry from multi-
viewdata. Alternatively,amorerecentclassofmonocular-3Dmethodshasusedlearning-
based priors to generate entire 3D meshes from single RGB images of objects (71).
Intermsofidentifyingkinematicsanddynamics,thereisarangeoftechniquesthathave
been proposed to take constructed geometries and imbue them with physical properties
needed for manipulation. Kinematic identification involves accurately inferring object
and scene articulation, and degrees of freedom from real data. This is particularly
challengingwheneachoftheseDoFsisnotdirectlyactivatedduringdatacollection (67).
Avarietyofrecentmethods (66,72,68)haveattemptedtoinferarticulationfromvideo
or image sequences using foundation models. While they provide a reasonable starting
point, there is still a considerable gap with respect to the real world. Finally, to obtain
accurate environment renderings, novel-view synthesis methods have been particularly
effective (73, 74). These techniques enable high-fidelity neural rendering learned from
purely real-world data, while enabling 3D, multiview image queries.
4.1.2.Choice of Modalities and Representations. For most robotic tasks, it is possible to
definedifferentobservationandactionspaces. Thischoiceofinterfacedefinesthepotential
behaviors of the resulting system and can have strong implications on the reality gap (25,
75, 76, 77, 78, 79, 80, 81).
• ChoiceofModalities. Differentsensorsandactuatorscanyielddifferentgaps(82,83).
Forinstance,usingdepthobservationn,orpointcloudsyieldsasmallerrealitygapthan
images, and this approach is a common practice in the field (84, 75, 79, 80, 81). RGB
www.annualreviews.org • TheRealityGapinRobotics 13

--- Page Suivante ---

images are hard to render photo-realistically, and often include artifacts and features
Choice of
that are very complex to model, such as the ones discussed in section 3.2.1.
modalities &
representations • State Representations. Similar to sensor modalities, the choice of state representa-
affectsthe tions can strongly influence the reality gap (85, 86, 87, 88, 89). While using inferred
perception gap. depthmapscanbeapopularchoiceintheliterature,otherrepresentationssuchaskey-
pointdetections(87),visualfeaturetracking(90)orfoundationmodelembeddings(89)
have also been proved to be good abstractions for reducing the sensory reality gap.
Choice of action • Action Representations. The action space plays a crucial role in reducing the sim-
representations to-real gap as demonstrated across robotics domains including navigation (91), locomo-
affectstheactuation
tion (92), and manipulation (25). For instance, for manipulation, previous studies have
gap.
showntheadvantagesofusing jointvelocitycontrolspacesforsim-to-realtransfer(25).
4.1.3.Design Choices. Another important factor to reduce the reality gap is the system
design and implementations. When designing a robotic system, multiple choices need to
be made depending on the task requirements. This design, however, strongly influences
the transferability of any behavior from simulation to the real world. Hence, it is quite
important to consider the reality gap when designing the system, including its hardware,
the controller’s implementations, constraints, and even the software stack.
• Low-levelControllerImprovements. Whilehigh-levelpolicylearningtypicallytakes
Low-level placeinsimulation,thefinalinteractionwiththerealworldisgovernedbylow-levelcon-
controller trollers. Improvingtherobustnessandfidelityofthesecontrollersisthereforecrucialfor
improvementscan overcoming the reality gap. One effective approach is to increase the control frequency
reducetheactuation
or bandwidth, allowing the system to respond more quickly to discrepancies and better
gap.
handle latency, noise, or unmodeled dynamics. For example, Zhang et al. (93) show
that high-frequency impedance controllers can significantly improve sim-to-real trans-
fer in manipulation tasks by stabilizing behavior under real-world disturbances. Such
Software stack improvements on the low-level controllers can make the system more resilient to imper-
alignmentcan fections in both the simulator and the real-world environment.
reducebothreality • Software Stack Alignment. Beyondphysicalrealism,achievingsuccessfulsim-to-real
gapandperformance
transferalsorequiresconsistencyinthesoftwarestackbetweensimulationandreal-world
gap.
deployment. Evensmalldiscrepancies,suchasmismatchedcontrolrates,missingfilters,
orunmodeledsafetychecks,canleadtounexpectedbehavioranddegradedperformance.
Replicating consistent software components ensures that the policy is exposed to the
same control dynamics during both training and real-world execution.
Hardware design • Hardware Design. The design of the robot itself can also significantly influence the
canaffecttheof sim-to-realgap. Hardwarechoicesthatsimplifymodelingorimprovephysicalrobustness
dynamics gaps and
canmakeiteasiertosimulatethesystemaccuratelyandimproverobustnesstodiscrep-
theactuation gap.
ancies. For example, using actuators with low latency and consistent torque output,
or sensors with well-characterized noise profiles, can improve the fidelity of simulation
andreducetheneedforcomplexsystemidentification. Additionally,hardwarewithpas-
sive stability, compliant actuators, or simple kinematics can better tolerate control and
perceptionerrors,whichcouldfurtherimprovethechancesofsuccessfultransfer. These
principlesalignwithrecentadvancesinreal-worldimitationlearning,suchas(94),where
careful co-design of hardware and learning pipelines enables effective policy learning.
• Constraining System Dynamics. Anotherpracticalstrategyforreducingthereality
gapistoinitiallylimittherobot’sdynamiccomplexityduringdeployment. Byoperating
at lower speeds or avoiding aggressive maneuvers, the system becomes less sensitive to
14 Aljalboutetal.

--- Page Suivante ---

modelinginaccuracies,actuatordelays,andperceptionnoise. Suchnon-dynamicbehav-
Constraining
iorsreducetheburdenonboththecontrollerandsimulator,improvingrobustnessunder
system dynamics
real-worlduncertainties. Forexample,Chenetal.(95)showthatconstrainingmotionto canreducethe
quasi-staticregimescanleadtomorereliablesim-to-realtransferinmanipulationtasks. dynamics gapand
theperception gap.
4.2.Overcoming the Gap
In the previous section, we discussed different paradigms to reduce the reality gap with
different measures to bring the simulated and real-world environments closer together. An
orthogonal family of methods assumes a fixed reality gap and attempts to overcome it by
either making the policies agnostic to the choice of models and parameters or making the
policy capable of detecting and reacting to different physical and systematic parameters.
4.2.1.Domain Generalization and Adaptation. One of the most common approaches to
overcome the reality gap is to expose the policy to a large variation of the system and
dynamics parameters during training. As a result, the policy should be robust to different
instantiations of these parameters, including the ones representing the real world.
• Domain randomization (DR).Amongthemostpopularandwidely-usedapproaches
to achieve this is DR. In DR, we train the policy in simulation using a broad distribu- Domain
tion of simulated environments spanning different simulation parameters such as visual randomizationcan
reduceallkindsof
(more generally sensory) parameters like texture and lighting, observation and action
reality gaps.
noise,physicsparameterssuchasmassandinertia,systemdelays,objectproperties,and
others. Consequently, the policy can learn a behavior that is applicable to such a large
distribution of environments. DR mitigates the need for painstaking system identifica-
tionandsimulatorcalibration(96). OneoftheearliestapplicationsofDRwastodrone
navigation(11). Theparadigmhasgainedsignificantpopularityeversinceandhasbeen
used to produce some of the most impressive robotics milestones, including dexterous
manipulation (3), quadruped locomotion (4, 44), and champion-level drone racing (8).
TofurtherimprovetraditionalDR,multipleapproacheshavebeenproposedtoautomate
the choice of parameter distributions. For instance, Akkaya et al. (3) proposed auto-
maticDRtoprogressivelyexpandtherangeofrandomdynamicsasthepolicybecomes
successful. Tibonietal.(97)proposetouseanofflinereal-worlddatasettoestimatethe
optimalDRrangesallowingtocompensateforunmodeledeffects. Similarly,Chebotaret
al.(48)proposedusingreal-worlddatatoinfersimulationparametersforonlinetraining.
The lowest-return dynamics from an ensemble effectively acts like adversarial samples
for training. For a comprehensive review of DR methods, see (98). Adversarial
• AdversarialTrainingsystematicallygeneratesdatatoenforcerobustnessandenhance trainingcanreduce
model resilience beyond standard training. Pinto et al. (99) propose robust adversarial theactuation gap,
perception gap,and
reinforcementlearning,whereinadditiontothemainagent,anadversaryagentistrained
dynamics gap.
to apply disturbances to destabilize the main agent’s policy.
• Meta Learningisanotherparadigmfordomainadaptation. Forinstance,in(100),the
Meta learning
authorsproposetousemeta-learningforpolicylearninginsimulationunderalargedis-
adaptsthe
tributionofsimulationparameters,allowingthepolicytointernallyrecognizevariations simulation
of parameters and act according to its internal understanding. This family of methods parameterstoreduce
leveragesmetareinforcementlearningtoadaptthepolicytovariationsofsimulationpa- thereality gap.
rameters (101). While domain-randomization-based methods aim to learn a policy that
can generalize to a large distribution of simulation parameters, methods such as meta-
www.annualreviews.org • TheRealityGapinRobotics 15

--- Page Suivante ---

learning aim to adapt the policy as inspired by adaptive control methods (102, 103).
One famous example of such methods beyond explicit meta learning, is rapid motor
adaptation (RMA) (104). RMA learns an encoder that infers latent representations
of the environment’s dynamics using privileged information in simulation. Given such
an encoder, the policy can adapt its actions based on the inferred latent environment
representations.
• DomainAdaptationcansimilarlybeusedtoenhancetheadaptivenessofthepolicyto
Domain variationsinenvironmentvariablesanddynamics(10,105,48,106). Comparedtometa
adaptationcan learningandRMA,domainadaptationmethodsforsim-to-realtransferaimtomakethe
reducethe
policy more robust to the sim-to-real distribution shift. In other words, the main focus
perception gap.
of these methods is to enable observation adaptation in the policy and not necessarily
adaptation to the changing dynamics.
4.2.2.Data Selection and Exploration. Another important category of methods to over-
come the reality gap is to carefully select and curate the training data and exploration
strategies used in simulation. These methods focus on generating training data that most
closely resemble the target real-world data or data from worst-case behaviors.
• Incorporating real-world data to inform simulation training can greatly improve
transfer. For instance, Niu et al. (107) proposed integrating limited real-world data
Real world data with simulated experiences, while adaptively penalizing learning from simulated state-
canbeusedto action pairs that exhibit significant discrepancies from real-world dynamics. Torne et
reduceallkindsof
al. (58) proposed a real-to-sim-to-real pipeline that first uses real-world data to train
reality gaps.
a vision-based policy that is later used to train a teacher policy in simulation. The
teacheristhenusedtotrainavision-basedstudentpolicyinsimulationusingamixture
of RL with simulated rollouts and behavior cloning using real-world data. This work
demonstrated the benefits of co-training with real-world data versus training with only
simulationdata. Ankileetal.(108)proposedaresidualRLschemetocombinereal-world
andsimulateddataforvision-basedmanipulation. Maddukurietal.(109)demonstrated
the effectiveness of co-training vision-based manipulation policies with simulation and
real-world data. Co-training has also been shown to be beneficial for training robotic
foundation models (110, 111).
Sim-to-real-driven • Sim-to-real-driven exploration methods aim to explore the state-action space in
explorationcan waysthatexposethepolicytointeractionslikelytoenhanceitstransferfromsimulation
reducethe totherealworld. Forinstance,Liangetal.(112)proposedlearningexplorationpolicies
perception gap, that are executed in the real world to identify critical system parameters. Given this
dynamics gap,and
improved model of the environment, they perform trajectory optimization to solve the
actuation gap.
downstream tasks in the real-world environment. Another approach is to leverage the
simulationtolearnexplorationpoliciesthataretransferredtotherealworldforthesole
purpose of learning and fine-tuning policies with real-world interactions (113, 46).
4.2.3.Policy Architecture and Regularization. In addition to the data a policy is exposed
to at training time, the policy’s architecture and constraints can play a crucial role in the
transfertotherealworld. Inthissection,wedescribedifferentwaystostructurethepolicy
and regularize it in a way that helps sim-to-real transfer.
• Modularityofthesystemandpolicyarchitecturehasalsobeenshowntobebeneficial
for sim-to-real transfer. Clavera et al. (114) proposed decomposing the system into
16 Aljalboutetal.

--- Page Suivante ---

distinct modules, where vision and low-level control are managed independently from
Modularitycan
the policy. Their work demonstrated robust transfer of pushing policies. Mueller et
reducethe
al. (115) proposed a similar architecture for autonomous driving. Similarly, Zhang et perception gap,
al.(116)proposelearningperceptionandcontrolnetworkswithdifferentlossesandfine- dynamics gap,and
tuning the end-to-end policy network combining perception and control modules using actuation gap.
aweightedloss. Julianetal.(117)proposedahierarchicalarchitecture,learningseveral
low-level skills and a high-level policy coordinating them. By decomposing the policy
intomultipleskills,theyreducetheamountofdataneededtogeneralizetoanewdomain
and environment, such as the real world.
• Privilegedinformationisavailabletotheagentattrainingtimeinsimulationbutnot
duringdeploymentintherealworld. Suchinformationcanboostlearningefficiencyand
Privileged
enable larger-scale training in simulation (118, 119, 120). One popular example of such information
method is the previously discussed RMA algorithm (104). RMA uses privileged infor- addressesthe
mationtotrainalatentspaceonlineaspartofasystemidentificationmodule. Pintoet perception gap,
dynamics gap,and
al.(121)proposeanasymmetricactor-criticarchitecture,wherethecriticisconditioned
actuation gap.
on privileged information, while the actor policy is conditioned on true observations.
Radosavovicetal.(7)trainedateacherpolicyforhumanoidlocomotionwithprivileged
information and then distilled the teacher behavior into a student agent conditioned on
the observations. To overcome student-teacher asymmetry, they propose a loss combin-
ingRLandteacherdistillation,similartotheapproachpreviouslyproposedin(122)for
blockpicking. ThemaindifferencebetweenthesetwomethodsishowtheycombineRL
andimitationlearninglossesusingeitherfixedcoefficients(122)oraschedule(7). More
recently, Krinner et al. (123) proposed using privileged state information in state-space
worldmodelstoimprovethetrainingefficiencyofamodel-basedRLagent. Theproposed
approach was successfully demonstrated on vision-based high-speed drone racing.
• Representation learning leverages self-supervised objectives to learn representations
thatcanbebettersuitedforpolicysearchandsim-to-realtransfer. Bycarefullydesign-
ingtherepresentationlearningloss,wecanenforcethelearnedrepresentationproperties
thataredesirabletoovercomecertainsourcesoftherealitygap. Whiledomainrandom- Representation
ization and adaptation methods improve domain robustness via exposing the policy to learningcanhelp
reducethe
a wider set of data with the hope of out-of-distribution generalization, representation
perception gap.
learningmethodsleveragelossfunctionstolearnrobustfeatures. Forinstance,Tanwani
etal.(124)proposedanapproachthatleveragesreal-worlddatatoalignthedistributions
of the state representations in simulation and the real world, making the features more
robust to the corresponding domain shift. Yoneda et al. (125) propose to use adversar-
ial training to adapt the observation encoder learned in simulation once it encounters
real-worldsamples. Thisprocessiscombinedwithadynamicsconsistencylosstoensure
that latent transitions in the target domain remain faithful to the dynamics learned in
the source domain, thereby preserving policy effectiveness despite visual discrepancies.
Xingetal.(126)proposedacontrastivelearningapproachtolearnbackground-agnostic
andtask-relevantrepresentations,ensuringeffectivefeaturelearningforthedownstream
task while ignoring irrelevant, noisy background information.
• Policy regularization can change the behavior of the policy in a manner that helps
overcometherealitygapforsim-to-realtransfer. Regularizationtypicallyoccursthrough Policy
loss functions or elaborate reward designs for RL agents. For instance, it has become a regularizationcan
reducethedynamics
commonpracticetopenalizethemagnitudeofactionsandconsecutiveactiondifferences
gap.
through reward terms or penalties (44, 21, 127, 128, 25). Some works even penalize
www.annualreviews.org • TheRealityGapinRobotics 17

--- Page Suivante ---

themagnitudesofexplicitmeasuressuchasvelocityandaccelerations(128,44),aswell
as power loss (129). While all of these works rely on RL penalties to enforce desirable
propertiessuchassmoothnessonthelearnedpolicies,suchpoliciescanalsobeimposed
using loss functions. For instance, Mysore et al. (130) introduced smoothness losses to
thepolicytrainingalgorithmtominimizethetemporalandspatialLipschitzconstraints
of a quadrotor control policy function. Their work demonstrated a clear advantage
of loss function regularization over reward engineering. Chen et al. (131) presented
similar findings for humanoids locomotion. While these methods enforce properties on
the policy to overcome the reality gap, Niu et al. (107) proposed incorporating real-
world data during training to penalize the action-value function in simulation when
interactionsexhibitsignificantdiscrepanciesindynamicsbetweenthesimulatedandreal
environments.
5.Evaluation Metrics
Researchonsim-to-realtransferhasleveragedvariousmetricsforevaluation. Inthissection,
we survey such metrics while making a clear distinction between metrics evaluating the
reality gap itself and metrics that evaluate the sim-to-real transfer performance.
5.1.Assessing the Reality Gap
Awell-designedevaluationframeworkforassessingthegapbetweensimulationandthereal
world is critical for reducing the reality gap, as well as for understanding, diagnosing, and
ultimately improving the transferability of learned policies.
• Sim-to-real Correlation Coefficient. One key question in sim-to-real transfer is
whetherperformanceimprovementobservedinsimulationreliablyleadstobetterperfor-
manceintherealworld. Toaddressthis,Kadian,etal.(132)introducedthesim-to-real
Correlation Coefficient (SRCC). SRCC is defined as the Pearson correlation coefficient
between the performance metrics of the agents in simulation and the real world,
PN (x −x¯)(y −y¯)
SRCC= i=1 i i , 6.
q q
PN (x −x¯)2 PN (y −y¯)2
i=1 i i=1 i
where x and y denote the the task evaluation performance (e.g., success rates) of the
i i
i-thpolicyinsimulationandtherealworld,respectively,andx¯,y¯aretheircorresponding
means. A coefficient close to +1 indicates a strong positive correlation, suggesting that
the simulation performance is a good predictor of real-world performance. In contrast,
valuesnear0implypoorcorrelation,meaningsimulationresultsofferlittleguidancefor
real-worldevaluation. Importantly,asimulatorwithhighaveragereal-worldperformance
but low SRCC is still problematic. Without a reliable correlation, improvements in
simulation may have unpredictable effects in the real world, making it difficult to make
informeddesigndecisions. Mostofthechangesneedtobevalidatedonaphysicalrobot,
which defeats the purpose of using simulation to accelerate development.
• OfflineReplayError. Whendirectreal-worldpolicydeploymentisnotfeasible,offline
replay error provides a practical alternative for evaluating sim-to-real transfer. This
situation often arises during early prototyping stages or when deployment is limited
by cost, safety concerns, or hardware availability. Offline replay error compares state
18 Aljalboutetal.

--- Page Suivante ---

trajectories between a real-world trajectory and the equivalent simulation trajectory
when replaying the real-world actions in an open-loop fashion (25). Formally, given a
trajectory of real-world policy rollout states {sreal} and corresponding actions {a }, the
t t
offline replay error is defined as
1 X T
E = ∥ssim−sreal∥2, 7.
replay T t t
t=1
where T is the length of the trajectory, and ssim is obtained by rolling out the real-
t
world actions in an open-loop fashion in simulation. This metric is appealing due to
its simplicity and low cost: no real-time interaction is required, and evaluation can be
doneofflineusingloggeddata. Itprovidesaquickdiagnosticofhowwellthesimulation
representsthetargetreal-worldenvironmentunderthedistributioninducedbythepolicy.
A policy having a high offline replay error is a strong indicator of a large reality gap.
• Visual Fidelity Analysis. Assessing the perceptual domain gap between simulated
and real-world environments is particularly relevant for visuomotor policies that map
visualobservationsdirectlytocontrolcommands,aswellasvisualstaterepresentations
methods. Toquantifythevisualsimilarity,avarietyofmetricshavebeenproposedthat
operate at either the pixel level or in the space of learned image embeddings. These in-
cludebothdistribution-levelmetrics,whichassesstheglobalcharacteristicsofimagesets,
and single-image metrics, which compare individual simulated images to corresponding
real ones (133). For distribution-level evaluation, commonly used metrics include In-
ception Score (IS) (134), Fr´echet Inception Distance (FID) (135), and Kernel Inception
Distance (KID) (136), TSNE dimensionality reduction (137, 138, 126), all of which op-
erate on feature representations extracted from pretrained networks. For single-image
evaluation, metrics such as the Structural Similarity Index (SSIM) and Peak Signal-to-
Noise Ratio (PSNR) (134), Instance Performance Difference (IPD) (139) are used to
measure differences in luminance, contrast, and structural details.
5.2.Assessing Sim-to-Real Transfer
Whileevaluatingtherealitygapisveryvaluabletoanalyzethelimitationsofthesimulation
and further improve it, metrics that evaluate the sim-to-real transfer performance under a
fixed reality gap are also necessary. This category includes metrics such as success rate,
cumulative reward (in reinforcement learning), and task-specific indicators tailored to dif-
ferent domains. In this section, we will discuss in detail the evaluation metrics commonly
used to quantify sim-to-real transfer performance.
• Success ratemeasurestheproportionoftrialsinwhichapolicysuccessfullycompletes
the intended task, written as Success Rate= Nsuccess. It is widely used as a simple and
reliable indicator of sim-to-real transfer effectiv N entoetasls. This measure is most informative
when proper randomization is performed on all involved variables, such as the initial
environmentstateandsimulationseeds,amongmanyothers. Successratesarecommonly
reportedindiversedomains,includingmanipulation(140,23,26,14,77,141,142,143),
navigation (144, 145, 132, 146), autonomous racing (8, 147), legged locomotion (104,
44, 104). High task success rates in the real world often indicate that a policy has
successfully transferred key competencies learned in simulation. However, such metrics
are often binary or aggregate and do not reveal where or why the transfer might have
www.annualreviews.org • TheRealityGapinRobotics 19

--- Page Suivante ---

failed. For example, two policies with the same success rate might differ significantly in
robustness, and some of the failure modes can be critical in real-world deployment.
• Cumulative reward. Forpolicieslearnedusingreinforcement learning (RL)orwitha
predefinedrewardstructure,thecumulativerewardmeasureshowwellapolicyachieves
long-term objectives by summing the reward signal over time: R = PT r , where r
t=0 t t
is the reward at timestep t and T is the total duration of the episode. Unlike binary
successmetrics,itcancapturetheprogressandefficiencyofthepolicyrollouts,offering
a more fine-grained view of sim-to-real performance. However, its interpretability de-
pendsonconsistentandwell-designedrewardfunctionsacrosssimulationandreal-world
domains (148, 113, 48). This can make the comparison of different sim-to-real tech-
niques under varying RL configurations difficult, especially when reward formulations
differ across tasks or platforms.
• Task-specific metrics. In addition to general success or reward-based metrics, most
ofthesuccessfulsim-to-realstudiesevaluateperformanceusingtask-specificcriteriatai-
lored to the target domain. For example, navigation tasks may use path efficiency or
time-to-goal(145),whilemanipulationtaskstypicallyuseobject-centricmetrics,suchas
object-distance-to-goalforobjectpushing(25). Thesemetricsofferfine-grainedinsights
intopolicybehaviorandfailuremodesthatarenotcapturedbysuccessratealone. How-
ever, for real-world deployment, it will be challenging to provide standardization across
benchmarks, which can hinder fair comparison between methods.
6.Discussion and Open Problems
Despite the reality gap and the challenges it creates, sim-to-real transfer has been a very
successfulandpopularparadigminrobotics. However,itisunclearwhethersimulationwill
remain a major tool for robotics development as many challenges persist. We believe that
thereisstilluntappedpotentialforsimulationinroboticsanddiscusssomeofthechallenges
and opportunities next.
6.1.Wrong Models, Better Controllers
Asbrieflymentionedinsection2.3,itismoreimportantinpracticetoreducethesim-to-real
performance gap than to reduce the reality gap. This motivates the question of whether
accurate physics modeling is needed to perform reliable model-based control. Model-based
approaches,suchasmodel-basedRLandmodelpredictivecontrol(MPC)tendtobemore
data efficient than model-free RL and thus leveraging them in sim-to-real contexts can
decreasethescaleofdatagenerationnecessaryforsufficientlyreliablecontrol. Particularly,
researchers have examined how training for model-based RL can be adapted to not focus
on accurately capturing the underlying physics, but instead learning a dynamics model
that improves control performance (149, 150). Results show that focusing on learning a
model accurately near high-return areas outperforms the alternative of trying to learn a
model with uniform accuracy across the state-action space (149). Guzman et al. (150)
examine the use of Bayesian optimization for MPC, where they sample different physical
parameters in simulation for tuning the MPC controller. Results show that optimizing for
controlperformanceoutperformsplanningwiththemostlikelymodelestimate. Assuch,an
openquestionremainsastohowarobotcanmostefficientlyuseasimulatorwithincorrect
parametrization to learn either a policy or stochastic world model for use in generating
20 Aljalboutetal.

--- Page Suivante ---

robust, real-world performance.
6.2.Differentiable Simulators.
Differentiablesimulatorsofferthecomputationofgradientsofquantitiesinvolvedinthesim-
ulationwhichallowsthemtobeintegratedingradient-basedoptimizationworkflows(151).
While traditional simulators, such as MuJoCo (19) and Bullet (43) can often be useful in
such applications by leveraging finite differences, a differentiable simulator typically offers
fastand analyticallycorrectgradients. Themethods tocomputesuchderivativestypically
fallintotwocategories: automaticdifferentiationleveragingthechainruleofdifferentiation,
and manual computed analytical gradients. The most common form of Autodiff, reverse-
mode automatic differentiation, accumulates gradients for the inputs from each operation,
given the output gradients. Autodiff can be realized through a tape to record the opera-
tions of the computation path which allows the (reverse) playback in the backward pass.
Frameworks,suchasNVIDIAWarp(152),Taichi(153),JAX(154),andPyTorch’scompi-
lation option (155) allow code to be generated for the backward pass, which is critical for
performance. As such, an open question remains as to how to best leverage differentiable
simulation and augment it with learning-based dynamics model.
6.3.Video and World Models
Video models are primarily designed to process, generate, or predict sequences of visual
frames. Their core objective is to model temporal dynamics and evolving visual content
within video data. These models address a wide range of tasks, including future frame
prediction based on observed sequences and conditional video generation from text, ac-
tions, or other modalities (156). World models pursue a broader goal: learning internal
representationsofanenvironmentthatenablesimulationandpredictionoffuturestatesin
response to agent actions or external events (157, 158, 159). These models seek to encode
thecausalstructureoftheworldtosupportplanning,imagination,andcounterfactualrea-
soning (160). Despite recent progress, key challenges remain with significant opportunities
for future research. Video models, while effective at generating dynamic visual content,
struggle with maintaining temporal consistency, physical plausibility, fine-grained control-
lability, and computational efficiency—issues that hinder their reliability in robotics and
simulation. Worldmodelsofferapromisingalternativetowhite-boxsimulatorsandcanbe
learnedusingreal-worlddata,potentiallycreatingasmallerrealitygap. However,theyface
problems such as compounding errors in long-term predictions, poor generalization to new
environments, difficulty balancing abstraction with realism, and high data requirements.
Addressing these challenges will require innovations in model architecture, integration of
physical priors, and improved training strategies. In future iterations, the paradigms of
worldmodelingandsimulationmaynotbesodistinct,withsimulatorsnaturallyproviding
data to bootstrap world models for deployment in reality.
6.4.Simulation-Based Inference
Simulation-based inference (161) is a statistical technique to approximate the posterior
distribution of simulation parameters θ. Given a prior distribution p(θ), simulation dy-
namics model T (s |s ,a ), a set of simulation observations {ss}S and a set of real
s t+1 t t i i=1
state observations {sr}R , the posterior can be computed following the Bayes’ rule as
i i=1
www.annualreviews.org • TheRealityGapinRobotics 21

--- Page Suivante ---

p(θ|{sr}R ,{ss}S )∝p({sr}R |θ)p(θ). The main challenge is that the likelihood term is
i i=1 j j=1 i i=1
generally intractable. If we consider simulation as a generative process, ss = g(P ,θ),
s
where ss are simulated states or observations, the likelihood term can be defined as
p({sr}R |θ) = R p({sr}R ,ss|θ)dss. To compute this explicitly would require integrat-
i i=1 i i=1
ingoverallpossibletrajectoriesthesimulatorcouldgenerateforaspecificparametrization
θ. This is not feasible for the majority of robotics simulators that involve complex physics
models (including contact models), observation models, and numerical solvers. To address
thisissue,approximateinferencemethodshavebeenproposedbasedonMonteCarlotech-
niques such as Approximate Bayesian Computation (162), and variational inference (163).
Also, note that computing the posterior is an ill-posed inverse problem, as there are possi-
blymanysimulationparametersthatcangeneratethesametrajectories. Forexample,ina
pushingtaskwhereamanipulatorpushesablockonatable,theresistanceofthemotioncan
beattributedtohighermass, higherfriction, orboth. Thisleadstoposteriordistributions
thatarehighlymultimodal. Toaccountforgenericposteriorsandsidesteptheapproxima-
tion of the likelihood term directly, recent works in robotics have used techniques where a
neuralnetworkistrainedtodirectlyoutputtheposteriordistributionp(θ|{sr}R ,{ss}S ).
i i=1 j j=1
This is known as neural posterior estimation (164, 165) and has been used in robotics
recently(166,167,168,169,170,171,172). Theposteriorcanthenbeusedastherandom-
ization distribution for domain randomization. For a review of simulation-based inference
methodsappliedtodomainrandomization,see(98). Webelievesimulation-basedinference
methods will continue to be a popular research topic in robotics.
6.5.Simulation for Large Robotics Models
In recent years, there have been substantial efforts to collect real-world data to train large
models for robotics with techniques such as imitation learning (173, 174, 158). However,
realistically,real-worlddatacollectionofaction-labeleddatasetsislimitedbyseveralfactors
such as human efforts and hardware resources. Simulation represents a great opportunity
to augment such efforts with massive-scale synthetic data generation. Many recent works
exploredthisavenueandproposednovelpipelinestoprocedurallygeneratesimulateddata
based on real-world demonstrations (175, 176). As with RL, simulated data would need
to have a small reality gap to be valuable in real-world deployments. An open question
is whether the methods and assumptions needed to reduce these gaps would themselves
be limiting factors to the scale of data that can be collected in simulation (under these
assumptions and using these methods).
Another recent trend is to leverage simulation to evaluate real-world policies in a sys-
tematic and reproducible manner (177, 178). In this context, a proper calibration of the
realitygapiscrucialforsimulationtobeagoodproxyfortherealworld. Whilemethodsto
reduce this gap are very similar to the ones used for sim-to-real transfer, an open question
ishowtoovercometherealitygapforthespecificdownstreampurposeofmodelevaluations
such that the performance of a policy in simulation matches the performance in the real
environment.
7.Conclusion
This survey is an attempt at dissecting the very complex yet very important problem of
the reality gap in robotics. We discussed the sources of these gaps, the problems they
22 Aljalboutetal.

--- Page Suivante ---

create and solutions to alleviate them, together with evaluation metrics and opportunities
for future research. By better understanding the problem, we can more clearly situate
ourselves as a community to face future research challenges. Leveraging simulation to the
best of our capabilities will enable a cost-effective alternative for the development of the
future generation of robotics systems.
DISCLOSURE STATEMENT
The authors are not aware of any affiliations, memberships, funding, or financial holdings
that might be perceived as affecting the objectivity of this review.
AUTHOR CONTRIBUTIONS
EA and FR defined the structure of the survey and its focus. EA wrote the abstract,
sections 1, 4, and 7 and contributed subsections to sections 2, 3, and 6. He also revised
and updated many paragraphs throughout the text. EA and JX made the illustrations.
JX wrote sections 3.2, section 5, and many paragraphs throughout the text. AR wrote
most of section 2, section 3.1, and section 3.3. IA wrote section 6.3. CG provided general
comments and suggestions and updated section 1. EH wrote section 6.2. AG contributed
to different parts of section 4. TH wrote section 6.1. YN contributed to section 4.1. DF
and DS provided feedback, corrections and suggestions on the content of the article. FR
conceptualizedtheworkwithEA,wrotesection6.4,andrevisedandupdatedseveralparts
of the article.
ACKNOWLEDGMENTS
ThisworkwassupportedbytheEuropeanResearchCouncil(ERC)undergrantagreement
No. 864042 (AGILEFLIGHT).
LITERATURE CITED
1. KirillovA,MintunE,RaviN,MaoH,RollandC,etal.2023.Segmentanything.InProceedings
of the IEEE/CVF international conference on computer vision,pp.4015–4026
2. AchiamJ,AdlerS,AgarwalS,AhmadL,AkkayaI,etal.2023.Gpt-4technicalreport.arXiv
preprint arXiv:2303.08774
3. Akkaya I, Andrychowicz M, Chociej M, Litwin M, McGrew B, et al. 2019. Solving rubik’s
cubewitharobothand.arXiv preprint arXiv:1910.07113
4. TanJ,ZhangT,CoumansE,IscenA,BaiY,etal.2018.Sim-to-real: Learningagilelocomotion
forquadrupedrobots.Robotics: Science and Systems XIV
5. TangB,LinMA,AkinolaIA,HandaA,SukhatmeGS,etal.2023.IndustReal: Transferring
Contact-RichAssemblyTasksfromSimulationtoReality.InProceedingsofRobotics: Science
and Systems.Daegu,RepublicofKorea
6. LeeJ,HwangboJ,WellhausenL,KoltunV,HutterM.2020.Learningquadrupedallocomotion
overchallengingterrain.Science robotics 5(47):eabc5986
7. RadosavovicI,XiaoT,ZhangB,DarrellT,MalikJ,SreenathK.2024.Real-worldhumanoid
locomotionwithreinforcementlearning.Science Robotics 9(89):eadi9579
8. KaufmannE,BauersfeldL,LoquercioA,Mu¨llerM,KoltunV,ScaramuzzaD.2023.Champion-
leveldroneracingusingdeepreinforcementlearning.Nature 620(7976):982–987
www.annualreviews.org • TheRealityGapinRobotics 23

--- Page Suivante ---

9. Muratore F, Gienger M, Peters J. 2019. Assessing transferability from simulation to reality
forreinforcementlearning.IEEE transactions on pattern analysis and machine intelligence
10. Rusu AA, Veˇcer´ık M, Roth¨orl T, Heess N, Pascanu R, Hadsell R. 2017. Sim-to-real robot
learning from pixels with progressive nets.InCoRL,pp.262–270.PMLR
11. Sadeghi F, Levine S. 2017. Cad2rl: Real single-image flight without a single real image.
Robotics: Science and Systems
12. Tobin J, Fong R, Ray A, Schneider J, Zaremba W, Abbeel P. 2017. Domain randomization
for transferring deep neural networks from simulation to the real world. In 2017 IEEE/RSJ
international conference on intelligent robots and systems (IROS),pp.23–30.IEEE
13. Nagabandi A, Clavera I, Liu S, Fearing RS, Abbeel P, et al. 2018. Learning to Adapt in
Dynamic, Real-World Environments through Meta-Reinforcement Learning.InInternational
Conference on Learning Representations
14. Andrychowicz OM, Baker B, Chociej M, Jozefowicz R, McGrew B, et al. 2020. Learning
dexterousin-handmanipulation.The International Journal of Robotics Research 39(1):3–20
15. ZhuangZ,FuZ,WangJ,AtkesonC,SchwertfegerS,etal.2023.RobotParkourLearning.In
Conference on Robot Learning (CoRL)
16. MittalM,YuC,YuQ,LiuJ,RudinN,etal.2023.Orbit: Aunifiedsimulationframeworkfor
interactiverobotlearningenvironments.IEEE Robotics and Automation Letters 8(6)
17. MakoviychukV,WawrzyniakL,GuoY,LuM,StoreyK,etal.2021.Isaacgym: Highperfor-
mancegpu-basedphysicssimulationforrobotlearning.arXiv preprint arXiv:2108.10470
18. Liang J, Makoviychuk V, Handa A, Chentanez N, Macklin M, Fox D. 2018. Gpu-accelerated
robotic simulation for distributed reinforcement learning.InCoRL.PMLR
19. Todorov E, Erez T, Tassa Y. 2012. Mujoco: A physics engine for model-based control.
IEEE/RSJ IROS
20. Rudin N, Hoeller D, Reist P, Hutter M. 2022. Learning to walk in minutes using massively
parallel deep reinforcement learning.InConference on Robot Learning,pp.91–100.PMLR
21. Song Y, Romero A, Mu¨ller M, Koltun V, Scaramuzza D. 2023. Reaching the limit
in autonomous racing: Optimal control versus reinforcement learning. Science Robotics
8(82):eadg1462
22. ZhangM,MaY,MikiT,HutterM.2024.LearningtoOpenandTraverseDoorswithaLegged
Manipulator.In8th Annual Conference on Robot Learning
23. Fu Z, Cheng X, Pathak D. 2023. Deep whole-body control: learning a unified policy for ma-
nipulation and locomotion.InConference on Robot Learning,pp.138–149.PMLR
24. GrandiaR,KnoopE,HopkinsMA,WiedebachG,BishopJ,etal.2024.Design and Control
of a Bipedal Robotic Character.InProceedings of Robotics: Science and Systems
25. AljalboutE,FrankF,KarlM,vanderSmagtP.2024.Ontheroleoftheactionspaceinrobot
manipulationlearningandsim-to-realtransfer.IEEE Robotics and Automation Letters 9(6)
26. Alles M, Aljalbout E. 2022. Learning to centralize dual-arm assembly. Frontiers in Robotics
and AI 9:830007
27. D’AmbrosioDB,JaitlyN,SindhwaniV,OslundK,XuP,etal.2023.Robotic Table Tennis:
A Case Study into a High Speed Learning System.InRobotics: Science and Systems
28. NVIDIA. 2023. Isaac sim documentation. https://docs.omniverse.nvidia.com/isaacsim/
latest/.Accessed: 2025-05-26
29. DosovitskiyA,RosG,CodevillaF,LopezA,KoltunV.2017.CARLA:Anopenurbandriving
simulator.InConference on robot learning,pp.1–16.PMLR
30. ShahS,DeyD,LovettC,KapoorA.2018.Airsim: High-fidelityvisualandphysicalsimulation
for autonomous vehicles. In Field and Service Robotics: Results of the 11th International
Conference,pp.621–635.Springer
31. SavvaM,KadianA,MaksymetsO,ZhaoY,WijmansE,etal.2019.Habitat: Aplatformfor
embodied ai research.InIEEE/CVF international conference on computer vision
32. KoenigN,HowardA.2004.DesignanduseparadigmsforGazebo,anopen-sourcemulti-robot
24 Aljalboutetal.

--- Page Suivante ---

simulator.InIEEE/RSJ IROS
33. Catmull EE. 1974. A subdivision algorithm for computer display of curved surfaces. The
UniversityofUtah
34. TremblayJea.2018.Training deep networks with synthetic data: Bridging the reality gap by
domain randomization.InCVPR Workshops
35. Nguyen CV, Izadi S, Lovell D. 2012. Modeling kinect sensor noise for improved 3d recon-
struction and tracking. In 2012 second international conference on 3D imaging, modeling,
processing, visualization & transmission,pp.524–530.IEEE
36. HuangJ,ValentinJ,etal.2019.DeepFusion: Real-TimeDense3DReconstructionforMonoc-
ular SLAM Using Single-View Depth and Gradient Predictions.InCVPR
37. LaconteJ,DeschˆenesSP,Labussi`ereM,PomerleauF.2018.Lidarmeasurementbiasestimation
viareturnwaveformmodellinginacontextof3dmapping.arXiv preprint arXiv:1810.01619
38. Susperregi L, Sierra B, Castrillo´n M, Lorenzo J, Mart´ınez-Otzeta JM, Lazkano E. 2013. On
the use of a low-cost thermal sensor to improve kinect people detection in a mobile robot.
Sensors 13(11):14687–14713
39. White J, Proakis JG. 2008. Digital Signal Processing: Principles, Algorithms, and Applica-
tions.PrenticeHall
40. Barshan B, Durrant-Whyte H. 1995. Noise characterization of an ultrasonic sensor. IEEE
Transactions on Instrumentation and Measurement 44(3):764–768
41. PengXB,CoumansE,ZhangT,LeeTWE,TanJ.2020.Learning Agile Robotic Locomotion
Skills by Imitating Animals.InRobotics: Science and Systems (RSS)
42. Arm P, Mittal M, Kolvenbach H, Hutter M. 2024. Pedipulate: Enabling manipulation skills
using a quadruped robot’s leg. In 2024 IEEE International Conference on Robotics and Au-
tomation (ICRA),pp.5717–5723.IEEE
43. Coumans E, Bai Y. 2016–2021. Pybullet, a python module for physics simulation for games,
roboticsandmachinelearning.http://pybullet.org
44. Hwangbo J, Lee J, Dosovitskiy A, Bellicoso D, Tsounis V, et al. 2019. Learning agile and
dynamicmotorskillsforleggedrobots.Science Robotics 4(26):eaau5872
45. Golemo F, Taiga AA, Courville A, Oudeyer PY. 2018. Sim-to-real transfer with neural-
augmented robot simulation.InConference on Robot Learning,pp.817–828.PMLR
46. Memmel M, Wagenmaker A, Zhu C, Fox D, Gupta A. 2024. ASID: Active Exploration for
System Identification in Robotic Manipulation. In The Twelfth International Conference on
Learning Representations
47. Farchy A, Barrett S, MacAlpine P, Stone P. 2013. Humanoid robots learning to walk faster:
Fromtherealworldtosimulationandback.InProceedingsofthe2013internationalconference
on Autonomous agents and multi-agent systems,pp.39–46
48. Chebotar Y, Handa A, Makoviychuk V, Macklin M, Issac J, et al. 2019. Closing the sim-to-
realloop: Adaptingsimulationrandomizationwithrealworldexperience.In2019International
Conference on Robotics and Automation (ICRA),pp.8973–8979.IEEE
49. Allevato AD, Schaertl Short E, Pryor M, Thomaz AL. 2020. Iterative residual tuning for
systemidentificationandsim-to-realrobotlearning.Autonomous Robots 44(7):1167–1182
50. Du Y, Watkins O, Darrell T, Abbeel P, Pathak D. 2021. Auto-tuned sim-to-real transfer. In
2021 IEEE International Conference on Robotics and Automation (ICRA),pp.1290–1296
51. Golemo F, Mart´ın-Mart´ın R, Pal C, Meger D. 2018. Sim-to-Real Transfer with Neural-
Augmented Robot Simulation.InConference on Robot Learning (CoRL)
52. Ajay A, Wu J, Fazeli N, Bauza M, Kaelbling LP, et al. 2018. Augmenting physical simula-
tors with stochastic neural networks: Case study of planar pushing and bouncing. In 2018
IEEE/RSJ International Conference on Intelligent Robots and Systems (IROS), pp. 3066–
3073.IEEE
53. Gruenstein J, Chen T, Doshi N, Agrawal P. 2021. Residual model learning for microrobot
control. In 2021 IEEE International Conference on Robotics and Automation (ICRA), pp.
www.annualreviews.org • TheRealityGapinRobotics 25

--- Page Suivante ---

7219–7226.IEEE
54. BauersfeldL,KaufmannE,FoehnP,SunS,ScaramuzzaD.2021.Neurobem: Hybridaerody-
namicquadrotormodel.Robotics Science and Systems
55. Gao J, Shi Y, Garg A. 2024. Sim-to-real of soft robots with learned residual physics. IEEE
Robotics and Automation Letters (RA-L)
56. Christiano P, Shah Z, Mordatch I, Schneider J, Blackwell T, et al. 2016. Transfer from
simulation to real world through learning deep inverse dynamics model. arXiv preprint
arXiv:1610.03518
57. HannaJ,StoneP.2017.GroundedActionTransformationforRobotLearninginSimulation.
InAAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence
58. TorneM,SimeonovA,LiZ,ChanA,ChenT,etal.2024.Reconcilingrealitythroughsimula-
tion: Areal-to-sim-to-realapproachforrobustmanipulation.arXivpreprintarXiv:2403.03949
59. Torne M, Jain A, Yuan J, Macha V, Ankile L, et al. 2024. Robot learning with super-linear
scaling
60. DanP,KediaK,ChaoA,DuanEW,PaceMA,etal.2025.X-sim: Cross-embodimentlearning
viareal-to-sim-to-real
61. JiangH,HsuHY,ZhangK,YuHN,WangS,LiY.2025.Phystwin: Physics-informedrecon-
structionandsimulationofdeformableobjectsfromvideos
62. Patel S, Yin X, Huang W, Garg S, Nayyeri H, et al. 2025. A real-to-sim-to-real approach to
roboticmanipulationwithvlm-generatediterativekeypointrewards.arXiv preprint
63. HuangP,ZhangX,CaoZ,LiuS,XuM,etal.2023.WhatWentWrong? ClosingtheSim-to-
Real Gap via Differentiable Causal Discovery.InConference on Robot Learning (CoRL)
64. Pfaff N, Fu E, Binagia J, Isola P, Tedrake R. 2025. Scalable real2sim: Physics-aware asset
generationviaroboticpick-and-placesetups
65. ChenY,LiX,GuoS,NgXY,AngM.2022.Real2simorsim2real: Roboticsvisualinsertion
usingdeepreinforcementlearningandreal2simpolicyadaptation
66. Chen Z, Walsman A, Memmel M, Mo K, Fang A, et al. 2024. URDFormer: A Pipeline
forConstructingArticulatedSimulationEnvironmentsfromReal-WorldImages.InRobotics:
Science and Systems (RSS)
67. Hsu CC, Jiang Z, Zhu Y. 2023. Ditto in the House: Building Articulation Models of Indoor
Scenes through Interactive Perception. In IEEE International Conference on Robotics and
Automation (ICRA).Codeavailableathttps://github.com/UT-Austin-RPL/HouseDitto
68. ZhaoM,WengY,BauerD,SongS.2024.Real2code: Reconstructarticulatedobjectsviacode
generation.arXiv preprint arXiv:2406.08474
69. Scho¨nberger JL, Frahm JM. 2016. Structure-from-Motion Revisited. In Conference on Com-
puter Vision and Pattern Recognition (CVPR)
70. Scho¨nberger JL, Zheng E, Pollefeys M, Frahm JM. 2016. Pixelwise View Selection for Un-
structured Multi-View Stereo.InEuropean Conference on Computer Vision (ECCV)
71. Wang N, Zhang Y, Li Z, Fu Y, Liu W, Jiang YG. 2018. Pixel2mesh: Generating 3d mesh
modelsfromsinglergbimages.InProceedingsoftheEuropeanconferenceoncomputervision
72. LeL,XieJ,LiangW,WangHJ,YangY,etal.2025.Articulate-Anything: AutomaticModeling
ofArticulatedObjectsviaaVision-LanguageFoundationModel.InInternationalConference
on Learning Representations (ICLR).Poster
73. Kerbl B, Kopanas G, Leimku¨hler T, Drettakis G. 2023. 3d gaussian splatting for real-time
radiancefieldrendering.ACM Trans. Graph.42(4):139–1
74. MildenhallB,SrinivasanPP,TancikM,BarronJT,RamamoorthiR,NgR.2021.Nerf: Rep-
resentingscenesasneuralradiancefieldsforviewsynthesis.Communications of the ACM
75. Mahler J, Liang J, Niyaz S, Laskey M, Doan R, et al. 2017. Dex-net 2.0: Deep learning to
planrobustgraspswithsyntheticpointcloudsandanalyticgraspmetrics.Robotics: Science
and Systems XIII
76. Tai L, Paolo G, Liu M. 2017. Virtual-to-real deep reinforcement learning: Continuous con-
26 Aljalboutetal.

--- Page Suivante ---

trol of mobile robots for mapless navigation.In2017 IEEE/RSJ international conference on
intelligent robots and systems (IROS),pp.31–36.IEEE
77. Ding Z, Tsai YY, Lee WW, Huang B. 2021. Sim-to-real transfer for robotic manipulation
with tactile sensory. In 2021 IEEE/RSJ International Conference on Intelligent Robots and
Systems (IROS),pp.6778–6785.IEEE
78. Kollar T, Laskey M, Stone K, Thananjeyan B, Tjersland M. 2022. Simnet: Enabling robust
unknown object manipulation from pure synthetic data via stereo. In Conference on Robot
Learning,pp.938–948.PMLR
79. MikiT,LeeJ,HwangboJ,WellhausenL,KoltunV,HutterM.2022.Learningrobustpercep-
tivelocomotionforquadrupedalrobotsinthewild.Science robotics 7(62):eabk2822
80. Agarwal A, Kumar A, Malik J, Pathak D. 2023. Legged locomotion in challenging terrains
using egocentric vision.InConference on robot learning,pp.403–415.PMLR
81. Zhu H, Wang Y, Huang D, Ye W, Ouyang W, He T. 2024. Point cloud matters: Rethinking
theimpactofdifferentobservationspacesonrobotlearning.AdvancesinNeuralInformation
Processing Systems 37:77799–77830
82. Zhou B, Kr¨ahenbu¨hl P, Koltun V. 2019. Does computer vision matter for action? Science
Robotics 4(30):eaaw6661
83. ChenB,SaxA,LewisF,ArmeniI,SavareseS,etal.2021.RobustPoliciesviaMid-LevelVisual
Representations: An Experimental Study in Manipulation and Navigation.InProceedings of
the 2020 Conference on Robot Learning, ed. J Kober, F Ramos, C Tomlin, pp. 2328–2346,
vol.155ofProceedings of Machine Learning Research,pp.2328–2346
84. Loquercio A, Kaufmann E, Ranftl R, Mu¨ller M, Koltun V, Scaramuzza D. 2021. Learning
high-speedflightinthewild.Science Robotics 6(59):eabg5810
85. James S, Wohlhart P, Kalakrishnan M, Kalashnikov D, Irpan A, et al. 2019. Sim-To-Real
via Sim-To-Sim: Data-Efficient Robotic Grasping via Randomized-To-Canonical Adaptation
Networks. In Proceedings of the IEEE/CVF Conference on Computer Vision and Pattern
Recognition (CVPR)
86. SoJ,XieA,JungS,EdlundJ,ThakkerR,etal.2022.Sim-to-RealviaSim-to-Seg: End-to-end
Off-road Autonomous Driving Without Real Data.InConference on Robot Learning
87. ZhangY,ZhangZ,KeL,SrinivasaS,GuptaA.2024.ATK:AutomaticTask-drivenKeypoint
selectionforPolicyTransferfromSimulationtoRealWorld.InCoRLWorkshoponLearning
Robot Fine and Dexterous Manipulation: Perception and Control
88. HoD,RaoK,XuZ,JangE,KhansariM,BaiY.2021.Retinagan: Anobject-awareapproach
to sim-to-real transfer.In2021 IEEE International Conference on Robotics and Automation
(ICRA),pp.10920–10926.IEEE
89. SilwalS,YadavK,WuT,VakilJ,MajumdarA,etal.2024.What do we learn from a large-
scalestudyofpre-trainedvisualrepresentationsinsimandrealenvironments? In2024IEEE
International Conference on Robotics and Automation (ICRA),pp.17515–17521.IEEE
90. KaufmannE,LoquercioA,RanftlR,Mu¨llerM,KoltunV,ScaramuzzaD.2020.Deep Drone
Acrobatics.InProceedings of Robotics: Science and Systems.Corvalis,Oregon,USA
91. KaufmannE,BauersfeldL,ScaramuzzaD.2022.Abenchmarkcomparisonoflearnedcontrol
policiesforagilequadrotorflight.In2022InternationalConferenceonRoboticsandAutoma-
tion (ICRA),pp.10504–10510.IEEE
92. Kim D, Berseth G, Schwartz M, Park J. 2023. Torque-based deep reinforcement learning for
task-and-robotagnosticlearningonbipedalrobotsusingsim-to-realtransfer.IEEE Robotics
and Automation Letters 8(10):6251–6258
93. Zhang X, Tomizuka M, Li H. 2024. Bridging the sim-to-real gap with dynamic compliance
tuning for industrial insertion.In2024 IEEE International Conference on Robotics and Au-
tomation (ICRA),pp.4356–4363.IEEE
94. ChiC,XuZ,PanC,CousineauE,BurchfielB,etal.2024.Universalmanipulationinterface:
In-the-wildrobotteachingwithoutin-the-wildrobots.arXiv preprint arXiv:2402.10329
www.annualreviews.org • TheRealityGapinRobotics 27

--- Page Suivante ---

95. Chen T, He Z, Ciocarlie M. 2021. Hardware as Policy: Mechanical and Computational Co-
Optimization using Deep Reinforcement Learning.InConference on Robot Learning
96. PengXB,AndrychowiczM,ZarembaW,AbbeelP.2018.Sim-to-real transfer of robotic con-
trol with dynamics randomization. In 2018 IEEE international conference on robotics and
automation (ICRA),pp.3803–3810.IEEE
97. TiboniG,ArndtK,KyrkiV.2023.Dropo: Sim-to-realtransferwithofflinedomainrandom-
ization.Robotics and Autonomous Systems :104432
98. Muratore F, Ramos F, Turk G, Yu W, Gienger M, Peters J. 2022. Robot learning from ran-
domizedsimulations: Areview.Frontiers in Robotics and AI 9:799893
99. PintoL,DavidsonJ,SukthankarR,GuptaA.2017.RobustAdversarialReinforcementLearn-
ing.InProceedingsofthe34thInternationalConferenceonMachineLearning,ed.DPrecup,
YWTeh,pp.2817–2826,vol.70ofProceedingsofMachineLearningResearch,pp.2817–2826
100. ArndtK,HazaraM,GhadirzadehA,KyrkiV.2020.Metareinforcementlearningforsim-to-
real domain adaptation. In 2020 IEEE international conference on robotics and automation
(ICRA),pp.2725–2731.IEEE
101. Ren AZ, Dai H, Burchfiel B, Majumdar A. 2023. AdaptSim: Task-Driven Simulation Adap-
tation for Sim-to-Real Transfer.In7th Annual Conference on Robot Learning
102. ˚Astr¨om KJ. 1995. Adaptive control. In Mathematical System Theory: The Influence of RE
Kalman.Springer
103. Sastry S, Isidori A. 1989. Adaptive control of linearizable systems. IEEE Transactions on
Automatic Control 34(11):1123–1131
104. Kumar A, Fu Z, Pathak D, Malik J. 2021. Rma: Rapid motor adaptation for legged robots.
Robotics: Science and Systems
105. Bousmalis K, Irpan A, Wohlhart P, Bai Y, Kelcey M, et al. 2018. Using simulation and
domainadaptationtoimproveefficiencyofdeeproboticgrasping.In2018IEEEinternational
conference on robotics and automation (ICRA),pp.4243–4250.IEEE
106. Zhang F, Leitner J, Ge Z, Milford M, Corke P. 2019. Adversarial discriminative sim-to-real
transferofvisuo-motorpolicies.The International Journal of Robotics Research 38
107. NiuH,QiuY,LiM,ZhouG,HuJ,etal.2022.Whentotrustyoursimulator: Dynamics-aware
hybrid offline-and-online reinforcement learning. Advances in Neural Information Processing
Systems 35:36599–36612
108. AnkileL,SimeonovA,ShenfeldI,TorneM,AgrawalP.2024.Fromimitationtorefinement–
residualrlforpreciseassembly.arXiv preprint arXiv:2407.16677
109. MaddukuriA,JiangZ,ChenLY,NasirianyS,XieY,etal.2025.Sim-and-realco-training: A
simplerecipeforvision-basedroboticmanipulation.arXiv preprint arXiv:2503.24361
110. Nasiriany S, Maddukuri A, Zhang L, Parikh A, Lo A, et al. 2024. RoboCasa: Large-Scale
SimulationofEverydayTasksforGeneralistRobots.InRobotics: ScienceandSystems(RSS)
111. BjorckJ,Castan˜edaF,CherniadevN,DaX,DingR,etal.2025.Gr00tn1: Anopenfoundation
modelforgeneralisthumanoidrobots.arXiv preprint arXiv:2503.14734
112. LiangJ,SaxenaS,KroemerO.2020.LearningActiveTask-OrientedExplorationPoliciesfor
Bridging the Sim-to-Real Gap.InRobotics: Science and Systems
113. WagenmakerA,HuangK,KeL,JamiesonK,GuptaA.2024.Overcomingthesim-to-realgap:
Leveraging simulation to learn to explore for real-world rl. Advances in Neural Information
Processing Systems 37:78715–78765
114. ClaveraI,HeldD,AbbeelP.2017.Policytransferviamodularityandrewardguiding.In2017
IEEE/RSJ International Conference on Intelligent Robots and Systems (IROS).IEEE
115. MuellerM,DosovitskiyA,GhanemB,KoltunV.2018.DrivingPolicyTransferviaModularity
and Abstraction.InConference on Robot Learning,pp.1–15.PMLR
116. Zhang F, Leitner J, Milford M, Corke P. 2017. Modular deep Q networks for sim-to-real
transfer of visuo-motor policies. In Australasian Conference on Robotics and Automation
2017,pp.62–71.AustralianRoboticsandAutomationAssociation(ARAA)
28 Aljalboutetal.

--- Page Suivante ---

117. JulianR,HeidenE,HeZ,ZhangH,SchaalS,etal.2020.Scaling simulation-to-real transfer
by learning composable robot skills. In Proceedings of the 2018 International Symposium on
Experimental Robotics,pp.267–279.Springer
118. ChenD,ZhouB,KoltunV,Kr¨ahenbu¨hlP.2020.Learningbycheating.InConferenceonrobot
learning,pp.66–75.PMLR
119. HuES,SpringerJ,RybkinO,JayaramanD.2024.PrivilegedSensingScaffoldsReinforcement
Learning.InThe Twelfth International Conference on Learning Representations
120. MessikommerN,XingJ,AljalboutE,ScaramuzzaD.2025.Student-InformedTeacherTrain-
ing.InThe Thirteenth International Conference on Learning Representations
121. PintoL,AndrychowiczM,WelinderP,ZarembaW,AbbeelP.2018.Asymmetricactorcritic
forimage-basedrobotlearning.Robotics: Science and Systems
122. NguyenHH,BaiseroA,WangD,AmatoC,PlattR.2022.LeveragingFullyObservablePolicies
for Learning under Partial Observability.In6th Annual Conference on Robot Learning
123. KrinnerM,AljalboutE,RomeroA,ScaramuzzaD.2025.Acceleratingmodel-basedreinforce-
mentlearningwithstate-spaceworldmodels.arXiv preprint arXiv:2502.20168
124. Tanwani A. 2021. DIRL: Domain-invariant representation learning for sim-to-real transfer.
InConference on Robot Learning,pp.1558–1571.PMLR
125. Yoneda T, Yang G, Walter MR, Stadie BC. 2022. Invariance Through Latent Alignment. In
Proceedings of Robotics: Science and Systems (RSS)
126. XingJ,BauersfeldL,SongY,XingC,ScaramuzzaD.2024.Contrastivelearningforenhancing
robust scene transfer in vision-based agile flight. In 2024 IEEE International Conference on
Robotics and Automation (ICRA),pp.5330–5337.IEEE
127. XingJ,GelesI,SongY,AljalboutE,ScaramuzzaD.2024.Multi-taskreinforcementlearning
forquadrotors.IEEE Robotics and Automation Letters
128. HandaA,AllshireA,MakoviychukV,PetrenkoA,SinghR,etal.2023.Dextreme: Transferof
agilein-handmanipulationfromsimulationtoreality.In2023IEEEInternationalConference
on Robotics and Automation (ICRA),pp.5977–5984.IEEE
129. Aractingi M, L´eziart PA, Flayols T, Perez J, Silander T, Sou`eres P. 2023. Controlling the
solo12quadrupedrobotwithdeepreinforcementlearning.scientific Reports 13(1):11945
130. Mysore S, Mabsout B, Mancuso R, Saenko K. 2021. Regularizing action policies for smooth
controlwithreinforcementlearning.In2021IEEEInternationalConferenceonRoboticsand
Automation (ICRA),pp.1810–1816.IEEE
131. Chen Z, He X, Wang YJ, Liao Q, Ze Y, et al. 2024. Learning smooth humanoid locomotion
throughlipschitz-constrainedpolicies.arxiv Preprint arXiv:2410.11825
132. Kadian A, Truong J, Gokaslan A, Clegg A, Wijmans E, et al. 2020. Sim2real predictivity:
Doesevaluationinsimulationpredictreal-worldperformance? IEEE RA-L5(4):6670–6677
133. LambertenghiSC,StoccoA.2024.Assessingqualitymetricsforneuralrealitygapinputmit-
igation in autonomous driving testing.In2024 IEEE Conference on Software Testing, Veri-
fication and Validation (ICST),pp.173–184.IEEE
134. SalimansT,GoodfellowI,ZarembaW,CheungV,RadfordA,ChenX.2016.Improvedtech-
niquesfortraininggans.Advances in neural information processing systems 29
135. HeuselM,RamsauerH,UnterthinerT,NesslerB,HochreiterS.2017.Ganstrainedbyatwo
time-scaleupdateruleconvergetoalocalnashequilibrium.NeurIPS 2017
136. YuJ,XuX,GaoF,ShiS,WangM,etal.2020.Towardrealisticfacephoto–sketchsynthesis
viacomposition-aidedgans.IEEE transactions on cybernetics 51(9):4350–4362
137. VanderMaatenL,HintonG.2008.Visualizingdatausingt-sne.Journalofmachinelearning
research 9(11)
138. BirudugantiS,YardiY,AnkileL.2025.Bridgingthesim2realgap: Visionencoderpre-training
forvisuomotorpolicytransfer.arXiv preprint arXiv:2501.16389
139. ChenBH,NegrutD.2024.Instanceperformancedifference: Ametrictomeasurethesim-to-
realgapincamerasimulation.arXiv preprint arXiv:2411.07375
www.annualreviews.org • TheRealityGapinRobotics 29

--- Page Suivante ---

140. James S, Wohlhart P, Kalakrishnan M, Kalashnikov D, Irpan A, et al. 2019. Sim-to-real via
sim-to-sim: Data-efficientroboticgraspingviarandomized-to-canonicaladaptationnetworks.
InProceedings of the IEEE/CVF conference on computer vision and pattern recognition
141. LinT,SachdevK,FanL,MalikJ,ZhuY.2025.Sim-to-realreinforcementlearningforvision-
baseddexterousmanipulationonhumanoids.arXiv preprint arXiv:2502.20396
142. Dalal M, Liu M, Talbott W, Chen C, Pathak D, et al. 2024. Local policies enable zero-shot
long-horizonmanipulation.arXiv preprint arXiv:2410.22332
143. SinghR,AllshireA,HandaA,RatliffN,VanWykK.2024.Dextrah-rgb: Visuomotorpolicies
tograspanythingwithdexteroushands.arXiv preprint arXiv:2412.01791
144. ZengKH,ZhangZ,EhsaniK,HendrixR,SalvadorJ,etal.2024.Poliformer: Scalingon-policy
rlwithtransformersresultsinmasterfulnavigators.8thAnnualConferenceonRobotLearning
145. GervetT,ChintalaS,BatraD,MalikJ,ChaplotDS.2023.Navigatingtoobjectsinthereal
world.Science Robotics 8(79):eadf6991
146. Chang M, Gervet T, Khanna M, Yenamandra S, Shah D, et al. 2024. GOAT: GO to Any
Thing.InProceedings of Robotics: Science and Systems (RSS)
147. XingJ,RomeroA,BauersfeldL,ScaramuzzaD.2024.Bootstrappingreinforcementlearning
withimitationforvision-basedagileflight.arXiv preprint arXiv:2403.12203
148. Sandha SS, Garcia L, Balaji B, Anwar F, Srivastava M. 2021. Sim2real transfer for deep
reinforcementlearningwithstochasticstatetransitiondelays.InConferenceonrobotlearning
149. LambertN,AmosB,YadanO,CalandraR.2018.Objective Mismatch in Model-based Rein-
forcement Learning.InLearning for Dynamics and Control
150. Guzman R, Oliveira R, Ramos F. 2022. Bayesian Optimisation for Robust Model Predictive
Control under Model Parameter Uncertainty. In International Conference on Robotics and
Automation (ICRA),pp.5539–5545
151. NewburyR,CollinsJ,HeK,PanJ,PosnerI,etal.2024.Areviewofdifferentiablesimulators.
IEEE Access
152. NVIDIACorporation.2024.Nvidiawarp: Differentiablespatialcomputingforpython.https:
//developer.nvidia.com/warp-python.Version1.5
153. HuY,AndersonL,LiTM,SunQ,CarrN,etal.2020.Difftaichi: Differentiableprogramming
forphysicalsimulation.International Conference on Learning Representations (ICLR)
154. Bradbury J, Frostig R, Hawkins P, Johnson MJ, Leary C, et al. 2018. JAX: Composable
transformationsofPython+NumPyprograms.http://github.com/google/jax
155. AnselJ,YouK,TeamP.2023.Torchdynamoandtorchinductor: Pytorchcompilationstack.
https://pytorch.org/docs/stable/torch.compiler.html.Accessed2025-06-27
156. Ming R, Huang Z, Ju Z, Hu J, Peng L, Zhou S. 2024. A survey on future frame synthesis:
Bridgingdeterministicandgenerativeapproaches.arXiv preprint arXiv:2401.14718
157. Bruce J, Dennis MD, Edwards A, Parker-Holder J, Shi Y, et al. 2024. Genie: Generative
Interactive Environments.InForty-first International Conference on Machine Learning
158. Hassan M, Stapf S, Rahimi A, Rezende P, Haghighi Y, et al. 2025. Gem: A generalizable
ego-vision multimodal world model for fine-grained ego-motion, object dynamics, and scene
composition control.InConference on Computer Vision and Pattern Recognition (CVPR)
159. Agarwal N, Ali A, Bala M, Balaji Y, Barker E, et al. 2025. Cosmos world foundation model
platformforphysicalai.arXiv preprint arXiv:2501.03575
160. DingJ,ZhangY,ShangY,ZhangY,ZongZ,etal.2024.Understandingworldorpredicting
future? acomprehensivesurveyofworldmodels.arXiv preprint arXiv:2411.14499
161. Cranmer K, Brehmer J, Louppe G. 2020. The frontier of simulation-based inference. Proc.
Natl. Acad. Sci.117(48):30055–30062
162. SissonSA,FanY,BeaumontM,ed.2018.Handbook of Approximate Bayesian Computation.
NewYork: ChapmanandHall/CRC
163. Gl¨ocklerM,DeistlerM,MackeJH.2022.Variationalmethodsforsimulation-basedinference.
arXiv preprint arXiv:2203.04176
30 Aljalboutetal.

--- Page Suivante ---

164. Papamakarios G, Murray I. 2016. Fast ϵ-free Inference of Simulation Models with Bayesian
Conditional Density Estimation.InAdvances in Neural Information Processing Systems
165. Radev ST, Mertens UK, Voss A, Ardizzone L, K¨othe U. 2022. Bayesflow: Learning complex
stochastic models with invertible neural networks. IEEE Transactions on Neural Networks
and Learning Systems 34(7):3694–3708
166. Ramos F, Possas R, Fox D. 2019. BayesSim: Adaptive Domain Randomization Via Proba-
bilistic Inference for Robotics Simulators. In Proceedings of Robotics: Science and Systems.
FreiburgimBreisgau,Germany
167. Barcelos L, Oliveira R, Possas R, Ott L, Ramos F. 2020. DISCO: Double Likelihood-free
InferenceStochasticControl.InProceedingsoftheIEEEInternationalConferenceonRobotics
and Automation (ICRA).IEEE
168. Matl C, Narang Y, Bajcsy R, Ramos F, Fox D. 2020. Inferring the Material Properties of
Granular Media for Robotic Tasks. In Proceedings of the IEEE International Conference on
Robotics and Automation (ICRA),pp.2770–2777.IEEE
169. Possas R, Barcelos L, Oliveira R, Fox D, Ramos F. 2020. Online BayesSim for Combined
Simulator Parameter Inference and Policy Improvement. In 2020 IEEE/RSJ International
Conference on Intelligent Robots and Systems (IROS),pp.8005–8012.IEEE
170. AntonovaR,YangJ,SundaresanP,FoxD,RamosF,BohgJ.2021.Abayesiantreatmentof
real-to-simfordeformableobjectmanipulation.arXiv preprint arXiv:2112.05068
171. Muratore F, Gruner T, Wiese F, Belousov B, Gienger M, Peters J. 2022. Neural Posterior
Domain Randomization.InProceedings of the 5th Conference on Robot Learning
172. MatlC,NarangY,FoxD,BajcsyR,RamosF.2021.STReSSD:Sim-To-RealfromSoundfor
Stochastic Dynamics.InProceedings of the Conference on Robot Learning (CoRL),vol.155
173. O’NeillA,RehmanA,MaddukuriA,GuptaA,PadalkarA,etal.2024.Open x-embodiment:
Roboticlearningdatasetsandrt-xmodels: Openx-embodimentcollaboration0.In2024IEEE
International Conference on Robotics and Automation (ICRA),pp.6892–6903.IEEE
174. Khazatsky A, Pertsch K, Nair S, Balakrishna A, Dasari S, et al. 2024. Droid: A large-scale
in-the-wildrobotmanipulationdataset.arXiv preprint arXiv:2403.12945
175. LiuG,DengY,ZhaoR,ZhouH,ChenJ,etal.2025.DexScale: AutomatingDataScalingfor
Sim2Real Generalizable Robot Control.InInternational Conference on Machine Learning
176. Mandlekar A, Nasiriany S, Wen B, Akinola I, Narang Y, et al. 2023. MimicGen: A Data
GenerationSystemforScalableRobotLearningusingHumanDemonstrations.InConference
on Robot Learning,pp.1820–1864.PMLR
177. LiX,HsuK,GuJ,PertschK,MeesO,etal.2024.Evaluatingreal-worldrobotmanipulation
policiesinsimulation.8th Anal Conference on Robot Learning
178. BarreirosJ,BeaulieuA,BhatA,CoryR,CousineauE,etal.2025.Acarefulexaminationof
largebehaviormodelsformultitaskdexterousmanipulation.arXivpreprintarXiv:2507.05331
www.annualreviews.org • TheRealityGapinRobotics 31